___________________________________________________________________________

3 Formatting Your Work

Formatting is the process of giving your document the appear-
ance you want. You can change the appearance of the characters,
the spacing and alignment of lines in each paragraph, and the
page layout for the entire document. Most of the formats you
choose appear on your screen as they will appear in the printed
document.

This chapter describes how to format characters, paragraphs, and documents.

___________________________________________________________________________
Formatting Characters

The commands in the Character menu control the style, position, font, and
point size of characters in your document.

  ______________________________
























  ______________________________

On the screen, Microsoft Windows Write displays character formats that
resemble the formats you will see when you print the document. If your
printer cannot print a format, such as italic, Write does not display it.
However, the selection still has the format, as indicated by a checkmark on
the menu. If you change to a printer that prints the format, Write changes
the display. For information on how to change the printer, see Chapter 5,
Printing a Document.

Write saves character formats when you save your document. Write also keeps
character formats when you move or copy your formatted text to other parts
of the document or to another Write document.

When you type text, it will have the same formats as the text
just before the insertion point unless you change the format just before
you start typing.

Changing Character Styles

Character styles add emphasis to text by making it bold, italic, or
underlined. You can apply more than one character style to the same
characters. For example, if you choose Bold, then Italic, then Underline
for the same selection, all three styles apply.


________________________________________
Changing character styles

To change or add character styles, follow these steps:


1 Select the text you want to change.


2 Select the Character menu and choose the style you want. Or, you can
  press the following shortcut keys:




To choose   Press
___________________________________________________________________________

Normal      F5

Bold        F6

Italic      F7

Underline   F8

If you choose a style that is already checked, Write removes that style
from the selection. For example, if Bold is already checked, choosing Bold
again cancels it. (In other words, these items
toggle.)

Creating Superscripts and Subscripts

Superscripts and subscripts are characters that appear slightly above or
below the rest of the text. They are2also scaled to a smaller size. Use
them for notations such as H2O or 64 .


________________________________________
Creating superscripts and subscripts

To create a superscript or subscript, follow these steps:


1 Select the text you want to be a superscript or subscript.


2 Select the Character menu, and choose Superscript or
  Subscript.


  ______________________________










  ______________________________

Fonts

The font is the design of the alphabet in which text is displayed or
printed.

On the screen, Write displays the fonts and sizes that closely resemble the
output you will obtain with the current printer. The design of the alphabet
may not match exactly, but the line breaks and page breaks are accurate.

Changing Fonts and Size with the Character Menu

The Character menu contains the names of the fonts that you can assign to
text in your document, and commands to reduce or enlarge the fonts. Up to
three font names are displayed on the menu itself, and more may be
displayed in the Fonts command dialog box. The font names you see depend on
the active printer. For more information on fonts and the active printer,
see the Appendix, Fonts and the Active Printer.

Changing Fonts  When you start typing text in a new document, Write uses
the default font for the active printer. If you want to change to a
different font, you can choose one of the font names displayed in the
Character menu.


________________________________________
Changing fonts with the Character menu

To change fonts, follow these steps:


1 Select the text you want to change.


2 Select the Character menu, and choose one of the font names.


  ______________________________

















  ______________________________

There may be more than three fonts available for the active printer. You
can change to a font that is not displayed on the Character menu with the
Fonts command. For more information, see Changing Fonts and Size with the
Fonts Command later in this chapter.

Changing Font Size  You can change the font size with the Reduce Font and
Enlarge Font commands from the Character menu.


________________________________________
Changing font size with the Character menu

To change the font size, follow these steps:


1 Select the text you want to change.


2 Select the Character menu, and choose Reduce Font or Enlarge Font.


  ______________________________
















  ______________________________

When you choose Reduce Font, Write changes the font size to the next
smaller size. When you choose Enlarge Font, Write changes the font size to
the next larger size. The sizes are determined by Write, independent of the
active printer. If you change to a font size that the active printer does
not support, the text on the screen does not change size.


________________________________________
Determining the size of selected text

To find out the current size of some text, follow these steps:


1 Select the text.


2 Select the Character menu, and choose the Fonts command.

The dialog box displays the active font size in the Size text box.

Font sizes are given in points. A font size of 10 points gives about 6
lines of text to the inch when printed.

Changing Fonts and Size with the Fonts Command

With the Fonts command you can change to a font that is not displayed on
the Character menu. When you choose the Fonts command, you see a dialog box
that lists all the fonts available for the active printer. If you want to
select a font that is not on the list, you can add the font name to the
list.


________________________________________
Using the Fonts
command
To change fonts or font size with the Fonts command, follow these steps:


1 Select the text you want to change.


2 Select the Character menu, and choose the Fonts command.

  You will see this dialog box:

    ______________________________






















    ______________________________



3 To change the font, select a font name in the Fonts list box.

  To change the point size, select a point size in the Sizes list box, or
  type a point size in the Point Size text box.


4 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.

If you enter a font size that cannot be printed on the active printer,
Write does not change the size of the text displayed on the screen.

If the active selection has more than one font or font size assigned, the
Fonts dialog box does not propose a font name or size. You can leave either
of these items blank to indicate no change. This is useful if you want to
change the font size for a selection that contains various fonts, or change
the font name for text that appears in various sizes.

As you assign fonts from the dialog box to your text, the font names
displayed on the Character menu change to reflect the fonts you use most
often.


________________________________________
Adding a font name to the list

You can add a font name to the list in the Fonts dialog box and then assign
that font to text in your document. This is useful if you plan to print the
document on a printer other than the active printer.

For example, perhaps the Epson FX-80 is the only printer in- stalled in
your Windows system. But a coworker uses Windows with a NEC 3550, and you
plan to print the document on that system. You can add NEC 3550 font names
to the Fonts dialog box and assign them to text in your document. Then you
can print the document in the fonts you want on the NEC 3550. You can still
print the document on your Epson FX-80, or on another printer; if Spooler
doesn't recognize a font name, it selects an available font and continues
printing.

As an alternative, you could install the NEC 3550 (or any other printer) in
Windows using Windows Setup or Control Panel. Then you could change to that
printer before you format the document in Write. For more information on
changing printers, see Chapter 5, Printing a Document.

To add a font name to the list, follow these steps:


1 Select the Character menu, and choose the Fonts command.

    ______________________________



















    ______________________________



2 Type the name of a font in the Font Name text box.


3 Type the size of the font in the Point Size text box.


4 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.


___________________________________________________________________________
Formatting Paragraphs

The commands in the Paragraph menu control the alignment, spacing, and
indents of lines in each paragraph.

  ______________________________







  ______________________________

Before choosing a command from the Paragraph menu, position the insertion
point inside the paragraph you want to format. You can also format more
than one paragraph at a time. To do this, make a selection that spans all
the paragraphs you want to format. The command affects all the paragraphs
that are included in the selection.

Starting a New Paragraph


________________________________________
Starting a new
paragraph

To start a new paragraph, follow these steps:


1 Position the insertion point where you want to start the
  paragraph.


2 Press the ENTER key.

  If you want a blank line between paragraphs, press the ENTER key twice.

Every time you press the ENTER key, Write inserts a paragraph mark in the
document and starts a new line. There is no visible character for the
paragraph mark, so you cannot see it on the screen. But you can select,
delete, copy, and move a paragraph mark just as you do other characters.

For example, in PRACTICE.DOC, the blank lines between paragraphs were
created by pressing the ENTER key twice: once to start a new line and again
to leave that line blank. So there are two paragraph marks after each
paragraph. You can select an individual paragraph mark as you would select
any single character. Or, you can make a selection that includes text and
paragraph marks.

  ______________________________



























  ______________________________

When you copy or move a paragraph, include the paragraph mark in the
selection to keep the paragraph formats with the paragraph.

A new paragraph starts out with the same formats as the previous paragraph.
For example, if you are typing a paragraph that is double-spaced and
justified and you press the ENTER key, the following text you type will be
double-spaced and justified.


________________________________________
Removing a paragraph mark

To remove a paragraph mark, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point at the beginning of the paragraph following the
  break you want to remove.


2 Press the BACKSPACE key.

  If your paragraphs have a blank line between them, press the BACKSPACE
  key twice.


Changing Paragraph Alignment

You can align a paragraph on the left margin, the right margin, or both
margins (justified), or center it between the margins.


________________________________________
Changing paragraph alignment

To change paragraph alignment, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point inside the paragraph you want to change.


2 Select the Paragraph menu, and choose one of the alignment commands:
  Left, Centered, Right, or Justified.


  ______________________________



















  ______________________________


Changing Paragraph Line Spacing

You can change the line spacing in a paragraph to single spacing, 1 1/2
line spacing, or double spacing.


________________________________________
Changing paragraph line spacing

To change line spacing, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point inside the paragraph you want to change.


2 Select the Paragraph menu, and choose one of the line spacing commands:
  Single Space, 1 1/2 Space, or Double Space.


  ______________________________























  ______________________________


Changing Paragraph Indents

You can indent a paragraph from the left or right margin, and you can
indent the first line of a paragraph. Note that indenting is not the same
as moving the margin itself. To change the margins for the printed page,
see Changing the Page Layout, later in this chapter.












________________________________________
Changing paragraph indents

To change paragraph indents, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point inside the paragraph you want to change.


2 Select the Paragraph menu, and choose the Indents command.

  You will see this dialog box:

    ______________________________









    ______________________________



3 Type a measurement in inches or centimeters (see Changing the Page
  Layout, later in this chapter) for any indent you want to change.


4 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.

You can also create a hanging indent with the Indents command. In a
paragraph with a hanging indent, the first line extends farther to the left
than the rest of the paragraph.


________________________________________
Creating a hanging indent

To create a hanging indent, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point inside the paragraph you want to change.


2 Select the Paragraph menu, and choose the Indents command.


3 Enter a positive number for the measurement of the left margin indent.


4 Enter a negative number for the measurement of the first line indent.

    ______________________________









    ______________________________



5 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.


________________________________________



Formatting Paragraphs with the Ruler

If you have a mouse, you can also change paragraph formats with the Ruler.
The Ruler appears at the top of the window when you choose the Ruler On
command from the Document menu.


________________________________________
Displaying the Ruler

To display the Ruler, use this procedure:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Ruler On
  command.


________________________________________
Hiding the Ruler

To hide the Ruler, use this procedure:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Ruler Off
  command.


  ______________________________













  ______________________________


________________________________________
Changing alignment with the Ruler

To change paragraph alignment with the Ruler, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point in the paragraph you want to change.


2 Click one of the paragraph alignment icons above the Ruler.



________________________________________
Changing line
spacing with
the Ruler

To change line spacing with the Ruler, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point in the paragraph you want to change.


2 Click one of the line spacing icons above the Ruler.



________________________________________
Changing indents with the Ruler

To change indents with the Ruler, follow these steps:


1 Place the insertion point in the paragraph you want to change.


2 Drag one of the indent markers to a new position.

Note that the left indent marker and the first line indent marker are
superimposed before you move one of them.

  ______________________________










  ______________________________

The indents you create with the Ruler are reflected in the Indents dialog
box.

You can also change tab settings with the Ruler. For more information, see
Setting Tabs with the Ruler, later in this chapter.

___________________________________________________________________________
Formatting a Document

The commands in the Document menu control formats that apply to the
document as a whole.

  ______________________________









  ______________________________

When you start a new document, the formats are automatically
set as follows:

  ______________________________



























  ______________________________


Headers and Footers

A header is text that appears at the top of every page, and a footer is
text that appears at the bottom of every page. Use the Header or Footer
command from the Document menu to


o Enter the text you want for the header or footer.


o Include page numbers in the printed document.


o Include the header or footer on the first page.


o Change the distance between the header or footer and the top or bottom of
  the page.

You do not see headers and footers in the document until you print the
document. You can have one header and one footer in each document.

Adding a Header or Footer


________________________________________
Adding headers and footers

To add a header or footer, follow these steps:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Header or Footer command.

  You will see the Header or Footer document and the Header or Footer
  dialog box:

    ______________________________





















    ______________________________



2 Type the text for the header or footer in the Header or Footer document.

  You can format the text as you would any other text.


3 Press ALT+F6 to select the Header or Footer dialog box, or click the
  mouse inside the dialog box.


4 Type a measurement in the Distance from Top box if you want to change the
  distance between the header and the edge of the page.

  For a footer, this measurement is Distance from Bottom.


5 Select the Print on First Page check box if you want the header or footer
  to appear on the first page of the printed document.

  Otherwise, Write does not print the header or footer on the first page.


6 Choose the Insert Page # button to have page numbers in the printed
  document.

  When you choose the Insert Page # button, Write inserts the special text
  (page) at the insertion point in the Header or Footer document. The
  special text becomes consecutive page numbers when you print your
  document.


7 To carry out the command and return to your document, press the ESCAPE
  key at any time, or choose the Return to Document button in the Header or
  Footer dialog box.


Note Pressing the ESCAPE key or choosing the Return to Document button
saves the text, formatting, and editing you entered in the Header or Footer
document. You cannot use the ESCAPE key in a Header or Footer document to
erase all your changes. You can, however, use the Undo command in the
Header or Footer document as you would in any document.


Adding Page Numbers Only


________________________________________
Adding page numbers only

To add page numbers only, follow these steps:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Header command if you want page
  numbers printed at the top of the page; choose the Footer command if you
  want them at the bottom.


2 Move the insertion point to where you want the page number to appear on
  the line.


3 Press ALT+F6 to activate the Header or Footer dialog box, or click the
  mouse inside the dialog box.


4 Choose the Insert Page # button. This button inserts the special text
  (page) in the Header or Footer document. The special text becomes
  consecutive page numbers on the printed page.


5 Choose the Return to Document button to carry out the
  command.


Aligning a Header or Footer

Normally, Write aligns the header and footer with the left margin on the
printed page. You may want your header or footer aligned with the right
margin or in the center of the page. You can change the alignment of a
header or footer just as you would change the alignment of any other
paragraph.


________________________________________
Aligning headers or footers

To change the alignment of a header or footer, follow these steps:


1 Position the insertion point inside the header or footer text.


2 Select the Paragraph menu, and choose Left, Right, or
  Centered.


Now Try This

Add a header to PRACTICE.DOC, and format it so that it appears centered,
0.75 inch from the top of each page except the first page.


1 Open PRACTICE.DOC. Select the Document menu and choose the Header
  command.


2 Select the Paragraph menu and choose the Centered
  command.

  Now the text you type will be centered as you type it.


3 Type Preparing a Home for Sale in the Header document and press the ENTER
  key.


4 Type Page and press the SPACEBAR.


5 Press ALT+F6 to select the Header dialog box.


6 Press the TAB key twice so the blinking underscore is in the Insert Page
  # button.


7 Press the SPACEBAR.

  Write inserts the special text (page) at the insertion point in the
  Header document.

    ______________________________



















    ______________________________



8 Press ALT+F6 to select the Header document again.


9 Press the ENTER key twice to leave a blank line between the header and
  the text when you print the document.


10Press the ESCAPE key to save the header and return to PRACTICE.DOC.

Try printing PRACTICE.DOC so you can see the header on each page.

Setting Tabs

You can easily set tabs for lists or tables with Write. Use the Tabs
command from the Document menu, or use the Ruler. A tab can be a left-
aligned tab or a decimal tab. Use left-aligned tabs to form a column of
items aligned on the left. Use decimal tabs to form a column of numbers
aligned on their decimal points.

Tabs are preset at every half inch. The preset tabs are left-aligned tabs.
They do not appear in the Tabs dialog box or on the Ruler. Tabs that you
set override the preset tabs. You can set up to 12 tabs.


________________________________________
Setting tabs

To set tabs, follow these steps:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Tabs command.

  You will see this dialog box:

    ______________________________














    ______________________________



2 To change a tab, select the position and type a number. This will be the
  location of the tab stop, in inches or centimeters depending on which
  measure you have chosen. (See Changing the Page Layout, later in this
  chapter.)


3 To delete a tab, select the position and press the DELETE key.

  To delete all tabs at once, choose the Clear All button.


4 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.

The tabs you set with the Tabs command are shown on the Ruler.

________________________________________
Decimal tabs


Decimal Tabs

A decimal tab is a special tab stop that aligns text on the decimal point.
When you type text at a decimal tab stop, the characters you type are
inserted to the left of the tab stop until you type a decimal point. The
decimal point is inserted at the tab stop, and any additional characters
you type are inserted to the right of the decimal point. If you don't type
a decimal point at a decimal tab, all the text you type will be right-
aligned at the tab stop. Thus, you can use a decimal tab as a right-aligned
tab if you want to.

________________________________________



Setting Tabs with the Ruler

If you have a mouse, you can also set tabs with the Ruler. The Ruler
appears at the top of the window when you choose the Ruler On command from
the Document menu.


________________________________________
Setting tabs
with the Ruler

To set tabs with the Ruler, follow these steps:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Ruler On
  command.

    ______________________________





















    ______________________________



2 Click the tab icon you want to use: left-aligned or decimal.


3 Click the Ruler where you want to set a tab, or drag an existing tab
  marker to a new position.


4 To hide the Ruler, select the Document menu, and choose the Ruler Off
  command.

The tabs you set with the Ruler are reflected in the Tabs dialog box.


________________________________________
Removing tabs
with the Ruler

To remove a tab with the Ruler, follow this procedure:


1 Drag the tab marker down and off the Ruler.


Changing the Page Layout

The page layout is the arrangement of text on the page when you print your
document. Use the Page Layout command to


o Change Write's margins for the printed page.


o Specify a starting page number other than 1 for the printed document.

In a printed document, indented text is indented from the margins you set
with the Page Layout command.


________________________________________
Changing the page layout

To change the page layout, follow these steps:


1 Select the Document menu, and choose the Page Layout
  command.

  You will see this dialog box:

    ______________________________














    ______________________________



2 In the Start Page Numbers At box, type the number at which you want page
  numbers to start, if different than 1.


3 In the Margins boxes, type the margins you want.


4 Choose the cm button if you want metric measure.


5 Choose the OK button to carry out the command.

If you enter a starting page number, Write adjusts the page numbers
displayed in the lower-left corner of the window. Write also uses the
adjusted page numbers for the Go To Page command from the Search menu.
































































