___________________________________________________________________________

Appendix
Fonts and the Active Printer

This appendix describes how Microsoft Windows Write uses fonts with
different types of printers.

The fonts provided with Windows are Courier, Helv, and Tms Rmn. Courier is
a fixed-space font, and Helv and Tms Rmn are proportional-space fonts.
Whether you can use a particular font with your Write documents depends on
the printer(s) you have installed with Windows.

___________________________________________________________________________
The Active Printer

When you start Write, the active printer is the printer you specified when
you installed Windows. If you installed more than one printer in Windows,
you can change to a different printer in Write with the Change Printer
command. The printer you change to becomes the active printer, and Write
formats the document for that printer. Write also sends the document to
that printer when you choose the Print command. For more information on the
Change Printer command, see Chapter 5, Printing a Document. For more
information on installing printers and fonts, see the Microsoft Windows
User's Guide.

When you change printers, you may notice a change in the font names on the
Character menu and in the Fonts command dialog box. You may also notice
that Write displays the text in your document in a different font. This is
because Write uses the fonts that are available with the active printer.
The rest of this appendix provides information on dot matrix and daisy
wheel printers, and on the Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printer.

Note On some two-drive floppy disk systems, you may not be able to use all
three of the fonts provided with Windows, even though your printer supports
all three fonts. To see which fonts you have, look at the font names listed
on the Character menu. For information on deleting one font and adding
another, see the Microsoft Windows User's Guide.


________________________________________
Dot matrix printers


Dot Matrix Printers

If the active printer is a dot matrix printer, such as the Epson FX-80 or
the IBM Graphics Printer, the list box in the Fonts command dialog box
displays font choices available. Font names other than Courier, Helv, and
Tms Rmn may be in the list box if you installed additional fonts from
Windows Control Panel, or if the active printer is an Epson.

________________________________________
Daisy wheel printers


Daisy Wheel Printers

If the active printer is a daisy wheel printer, such as the NEC 3550, the
list box in the Fonts command dialog box displays the names of fonts (print
wheels) that are available for that printer. During printing, Windows
Spooler prompts you to change the print wheel if it encounters a font
change in the document.

________________________________________
Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printer

Hewlett-Packard LaserJet Printer

If the active printer is the Hewlett-Packard LaserJet, look at your font
cartridge to see which fonts are available. When you use the Fonts command
to specify font sizes, be sure to specify a size that is on your font
cartridge.



























































