{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fmodern Courier;}{\f6\fdecor ZapfDingbats;}{\f7\fswiss Univers (WN);}
{\f8\fswiss Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;
\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s246\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720 
\f3\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720 \b\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360 \f3\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360 \b\f3\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb120 
\b\f4\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb240 \b\f4\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li360\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext2 j;}{\s3\fi-240\li520\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext3 ij;}{\s4\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext4 btb;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext5 ns;}{\s6\li120\sb120\sa40\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext6 H;}{\s7\li120\sb120\sa20\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext7 RT;}{\s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext8 TT;}{\s9\li120\sb240\sa40\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext9 c;}{
\s10\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext10 nsb;}{\s11\fi-240\li480\sb80\tx480 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext11 nscba;}{\s12\fi-240\li2400\sb20\sa20 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext12 ctcb;}{\s13\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext13 nsor;}{\s14\li1560\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext14 msor;}{\s15\fi-240\li2400\sa20 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext15 crtj;}{\s16\fi-240\li480\tx480 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext16 nsca;}{\s17\li2160\sa20 
\f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext17 ct;}{\s18\li360\sb40\sl-200 \f8\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 nsc;}{\s19\fi-1800\li1920\sb120\sa40\tx1920 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 HC2;}{\s20\fi-1800\li1920\sb60\tx1920 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext20 C2;}{\s21\li240\sa20 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext21 it;}{\s22\li120\sb40\sl-200 \f8\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext22 ctc;}{\s23\li480 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext23 nsct;}{\s24\fi-160\li400\sb80\sa40 \f8\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext24 nscb;}{\s25\fi-1440\li1560\sb120\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext25 ks;}{\s26\li1560\sb40\sl-200 \f8\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext26 msc;}{\s27\fi-240\li1560\sb60\sl-240\tx1560 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext27 msb;}{\s28\li2160\sb160 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext28 crt;}{\s29\fi-2880\li3120\sb120\sa20\tx2880 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext29 mk;}{\s30\fi-1440\li1560\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext30 ms;}{
\s31\li3120\sb20\sa20 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext31 mkc;}{\s32\fi-240\li3120\sb120\sa20 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext32 mks;}{\s33\li3120\sb40\sa20 \f8\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext33 mkor;}}{\info{\author Steve Moser}{\operator Steve Moser}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo9\dy4\hr9\min14}{\revtim\yr1991\mo9\dy4\hr9\min14}{\printim\yr1991\mo10\dy1\hr21\min51}{\version3}{\edmins104}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords68180}{\nofchars81652}{\vern16504}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \ftnbj \sectd \linex0 \pard\plain \li60\ri120\sb120 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Font Installer Help Contents}}}{\f4 K
{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Font Installer Help Contents}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 hlpidx_idx_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0001}}
}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 index;contents;topics}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Contents for Font Installer Help}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\sl288 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 
The Font Installer is a tool that you can use to install fonts for your printer.  You can install cartridge fonts and soft  (disk-based) fonts.  If you are using any of the HP LaserJet III family printers, you can install scalable typefaces as well. }{
\f4  The fonts }{\f4 must}{\f4  be in a specific format }{\f4 before you can}{\f4  install them with Font Installer.  For more information, see }{\f4\uldb Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}{\v\f4 compatible}{\f4 .}{\f4\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \li60\ri120\sb120 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 How To}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120 {\f4\uldb Copy or Move Fonts to a New Printer Port}{\v\f4 cfp_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Delete Fonts}{\v\f4 df_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Download Soft Fonts or Scalable Typefaces as Temporary or Permanent}{\v\f4 dftp_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Edit Soft Font or Scalable Typeface Names and Attributes}{\v\f4 efn_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Install Fonts}{\v\f4 if_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Specify Font Names and Font Families}{\v\f4 sfnff_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 Copyright }{\f4 \'a9}{\f4  }{\f4\fs16 1992 by Hewlett-Packard Company}{\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain 
\f3\lang1033 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 compatible}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 pcl:0049}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 
{\plain \f3\lang1033 compatible fonts;fonts, compatible;typefaces, compatible}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\plain \b\f4\up6\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 Fonts installed through the HP Font Installer must be in one of the following forms:}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 *   }{\b\f4 Bitmapped-printer (soft) fonts}{\f4  -- disk-based }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li1260 {\b\f4 
\par }{\f4\fs16 
Disk-based (soft) bitmapped printer fonts must be in PCL format.  These fonts have various file extensions.  For example, soft fonts from HP's Type Director  use .SFP and .SFL.  HP's older soft font products such as the AC, AE, AG, DA, DC products have fi
}{\f4\fs16 le extensions like .USP, .USL, .R8P, .R8L, etc.}{\f4\fs16 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4 *   }{\b\f4 Fonts installed through the AutoFont Support Utility }{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li1267 {\f4\fs16 AutoFont Support uses a file called GLUE.TXT}{\f4\fs16 
\par }\pard {\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 *   }{\b\f4 Cartridge fonts }{\f4 -- Printer Cartridge Metric (PCM) files}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Additionally, if you have }{\i\f4\ul Intel}{\i\f4\ul lifont-for-Windows}{\v\f4 intelli}{\i\f4 ,}{\f4  you can also use the HP Font Installer to install}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 *   }{\b\f4 Scalable typeface products -- }{\f4 disk-based or cartridge based}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \li1170 {\f4\fs16 Scalable typeface products must be in AGFA Compugraphic's FAIS format.  All other font products require AutoFont Support files or PCM files.}{\f4\fs16 
\par }\pard {\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 \page }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Deleting Fonts}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Deleting Fonts}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 df_fi}}}{\f4 +
{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0012}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 deleting fonts;fonts;removing fonts;cartridge fonts;soft fonts;delete;deleting;remove}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
Deleting Fonts}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 If you are no longer using a font, you can delete it from your Windows applications.  You might want to delete it from your hard disk, as well. }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To delete a font:}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the font dialog box, select the font(s) you want to delete from the list box on the left. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 
Notice the icons and marks next to the font name.  Soft  fonts can be identified by the disk icon.  Cartridge fonts can be identified by the cartridge icon and name.  Scalable printer fonts can be identified by a disk icon if they are disk-based sc}{\f4 
alable fonts, or by a cartridge icon if they are cartridge-based.  Scalable screen fonts can be identified by the disk icon and a small dot ( }{\f4 \'b7}{\f4  ) in front of the font nam}{\f4 e.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Delete button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 A dialog box appears, asking if you want to delete the corresponding font files from your hard disk. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose Yes to delete the font(s) from both your printer memory and your hard disk. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 Or choose No to delete the font(s) from the printer memory but not remove them from your hard disk. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 When you choose }{\f4 No, the font name no longer appears anywhere in Windows, but the font file remains on your hard disk. Unless you plan to use it later, you should remove the font file and free the space on your hard disk. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Downloading Soft Fonts as Temporary or Permanent}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
Downloading Soft Fonts as Temporary or Permanent}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 dftp_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0014}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 
{\plain \f3\lang1033 downloading fonts;fonts;permanent;temporary}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Downloading Soft Fonts or Scalable Typefaces as Temporary or }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Permanent}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 The process of transferring soft fonts or scalable typefaces from your computer to your printer is called downloading.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
If you use a font frequently, downloading the font as permanent ensures that the font will stay in your printer's memory until the printer is turned off. You can generally print faster when you install fonts as permanent, but permanently installed fonts c
}{\f4 an also limit the amount of printer memory available for printing graphics and complex pages. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If you install a font as temporary the fo}{\f4 
nt is not loaded into your printer's memory until you want to print with that font. Temporary is the standard setting and works well when you rarely use a font, when you need your printer memory for printing graphics, when you are using a variety of fonts
}{\f4  in one document, or when you are printing to a shared printer.  When you first install a font from a disk, this is the default setting.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To download a font as permanent:}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, select the font you want to download as permanen}{\f4 t. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 
Although you can select more than one font in the list box, you can select only one font at a time for permanent downloading. If you select more than one font, the buttons used to select Permanent or Temporary will be dimmed when you try to select either 
}{\f4 setting.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Select the Permanent option. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Repeat steps 2 and 3 for each font that you want to download permanently. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 4}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 When you are finished configuring the disk-based fonts, choose the Exit button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 If you designated any fonts as permanent, a dia}{\f4 log box appears, asking whether you want the fonts downloaded immediately and/or automatically each time you start your computer.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 5}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Leave both Download Now and Download at Startup selected if you want to download your fonts or typefaces to your printer immediately and then each time you start your computer. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 If you select  Download at Startup, you must turn on your printer before you turn on your computer. This is because the font installer inserts a line into your AUTOEXEC.BAT file that automatically dow}{\f4 
nloads the selected fonts to your printer every time you start or reset your computer. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 6}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Exit button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Editing Disk-based Font Names and Attributes}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
Editing Disk-based Font Names and Attributes}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 efn_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0020}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 
{\plain \f3\lang1033 fonts;changing font names;Font Metrics dialog box;description;file;name;id;status;family;Roman;Swiss;Modern;Script;Decorative;Edit Mode}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Editing Soft Font and Scalable Typeface Names and Attributes}{\plain 
\f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 If you purchase a disk-based font }{\f4 that has the same name as a font you are already using, you should change the name of the font using Font Installer.  You cannot change the name of a cartridge font. }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To change a font name:}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, select the font you want to edit from the list of installed fonts. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Edit button. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Edit dialog box, type the new name for the selected font in the Name box. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\b\f4 Caution:}{\f4  Unless you are experienced at working with fonts (you create your own fonts or manually down}{\f4 
load your fonts), do not change any Font ID or Family settings that  Font Installer automatically enters. The list below describes all the options in the Edit dialog box. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 4}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 The new name for the selected font now appears in the Font Installer dialog box and in the Windows applications that use fonts. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 5}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Exit button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 
\par }\pard \ri60\sb60 {\f4 The options in the Edit dialog box vary slightly depending on whether you are installing a font that Font Installer doesn't recognize or whether you are }{\f4 
editing the name of a currently installed font. In either case, you will see these options: }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-1440\li1440\ri120\sb120\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \tx1440 {\b\f4 Option }{\b\f4 \tab }{\b\f4 Explanation}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-1440\li1440\ri120\sb60\tx1440 {\f4 Description}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 A description of the font. If the Font Installer doesn't recognize the font, you usually see only the typestyle and point size. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Font File}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The name of the file containing the font. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Name}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The font name that is used in the Font Installer dialog box and throughout Windows. If you are adding a font that the installer doesn't recognize, this box is empty, and you need to enter the name}{\f4  of the font. }{\f4 

\par }{\f4 ID}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 
The font ID number in WIN.INI. Do not change the font ID unless you are manually downloading fonts and want to change the order of the fonts in WIN.INI. If you change the font ID for a font, you must make sure that no other font installed on that printer 
}{\f4 port uses the same number. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Status}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The way the font is downloaded--either as a permanent or temporary font. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Family}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The name of the font family the font belongs to. The font family describes the general look of the font and determines h}{\f4 ow the installer generates the PFM file for the font. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Roman}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Serif fonts with variable character widths, such as Tms Rmn. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Swiss}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Sans serif fonts with variable character widths, such as Helv. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Modern}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Serif or sans serif fonts with non-proportional character widths, such as Pica, Elite, and Courier. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Script}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Cursive fonts. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Decorative}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Old English fonts. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Edit Mode}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Select this option if you selected several fonts with the same name and family. It lets you change the name of all the selected fon}{\f4 ts at the same time. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-1440\li1440\ri120\sb120\tx1440 {\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Fonts}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Fonts}}}{\f4 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 if_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0004}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
installing fonts;fonts;PCM files;cartridges;AutoFont Support Files;AutoFont;Auto;AutoFont Support;TFM files;PCM;TFM;soft fonts;disk;disk-based fonts;scalable;scalable type;TypeDirector;type;install;installing;typeface;typeface installation;cartridge;cartr
}{\plain \f3\lang1033 idge fonts}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Installing Fonts}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\f4 Before you install your fonts, be sure to set up your printer and printer port using Print Manager or Control Panel.  If your printer is connect}{\f4 
 to a serial port, you may need to change the port's communications settings to match those required by your printer, if you have not already done so.  This is especially important  since font information will be set up for the port your printer is connec
}{\f4 ted to.  To do this, choose the Settings button in the Connect dialog box. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 After you have installed a new font, make sure it does not have the same name and point size as another font you are using. Though the names and sizes are the same, the font metric}{\f4 
s for the two fonts may differ and the fonts may print differently. If you find duplicate names, you can change the font name by choosing the Edit button. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 NOTE: Some printers, such as the original HP LaserJet printer, support only cartridge fonts and not disk-based fonts or scalable fonts.  Therefore, you can only install and configure cartridge fonts on this type of printer. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Select the topic which corresponds to the kind of font you want to install:}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120 {\f4\uldb Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}{\v\f4 bmfc_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li90\ri120 {\f4\uldb Insta}{\f4\uldb lling Soft  Fonts }{\v\f4 dbsf_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Disk-based Scalable Typefaces}{\v\f4 dbst_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\plain \b\f4\lang1033 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}}
}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 bmfc_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0006}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 cartridge}}}{\plain 
\b\f4\lang1033 Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
Support for some cartridge font products is already built into your printer driver.  If you are using such a printer driver, the cartridges supported by the driver are listed in the cartridges list in the printer setup dialog box.  In this case, you will 
}{\f4 not need to use Font Installer.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Choose the Cancel button to return to the printer setup dialog box and then select the cartridge from the cartridges list.  Your cartridge installation will then be complete.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If your cartridge is not listed, you must install }{\f4\ul AutoFont Support}{\v\f4 auto_font}{\f4 
 files (TFM files) or Printer Cartridge Metrics files (PCM files) which support your fonts.  If you do not have AutoFont Support diskettes or Printer Cartridge Metrics files, contact your font vendor.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-270\li270\ri120\sb120\tx270 {\b\f4 To install an unlisted font cartridge:}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 1.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Install the AutoFont Support files or Printer Cartridge Metrics files according to the font vendor's instructions.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, select the Add Fonts button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Add Fonts dialog box, type the drive and directory where AutoFont Support or Printer Cartridge Metrics files are located  (for example:  C:}{\f4 \\}{\f4 AUTOFONT).}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Font Installer will read the directory and display a list of fonts for which support is available.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 4.  Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 5.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In th}{\f4 e list on the right, select the font(s) you want to install.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 6.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Add button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 7.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Type the destination drive and directory for your driver support files (for example:  C:}{\f4 \\}{\f4 PCLFONTS).}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 8.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 9.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Exit button, then select  the cartridge name from the Cartridges list in the printer setup dialog box.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120\tx0 {\b\f4 NOTE:}{\f4   If you do not select the cartridge from the Cartridge list, the fonts will not be available in your Windows software.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\b\f4 Related Topics}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120 {\f4\uldb Installing Soft Fonts }{\v\f4 dbsf_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Disk-based Scalable Typefaces}{\v\f4 dbst_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\plain \b\f4\lang1033 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Soft Fonts}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Soft Fonts}}}{\f4 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 dbsf_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0008}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 soft fonts;}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Installing Soft Fonts}{\plain 
\b\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 With Font Installer you can install disk-based printer fonts that are in the Hewlett-Packard PCL format.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To install soft fonts:}{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-270\li270\ri120\sb120\tx270 {\f4 1.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, choose the Add Fonts button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Add Fonts dialog box, type the drive and directory of your soft fonts are located.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 4.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the list on the right, select the font(s) you want to install.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 5.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Add button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 6.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Type the destination drive and directory where you want to place the fonts.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 
If your fonts are already in a directory on your hard disk drive, use the same drive and directory as the destination drive and directory, so that Font Installer will not make duplicate copies of the fonts.  Otherwise, use the default printer font directo
}{\f4 ry C:}{\f4 \\}{\f4 PCLFONTS.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 7.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Once installed, each font will appear }{\f4 in the list to the left.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 8.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Exit button.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\b\f4 Related Topics:}{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sl240 {\f4\uldb Downloading Soft Fonts or Scalable Typefaces as Temporary or Permanent}{\v\f4 dftp_fi}{\f4\uldb 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}{\v\f4 bmfc_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Disk-based Scalable Typefaces}{\v\f4 dbst_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Disk-based Scalable Fonts}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Installing Disk-based Scalable Fonts}}}{\f4 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 dbst_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0010}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 scalable}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
Installing Disk-based Scalable Typefaces
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\f4 If you are using a Hewlett Packard LaserJet III family printer, you can install }{\f4\ul Scalable}{\v\f4 scalable}{\f4  typefaces with  Font Installer.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To install disk-based scalable fonts:}{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-270\li270\ri120\sb120\tx270 {\f4 1.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Install }{\f4\ul AutoFont Support}{\v\f4 auto_font}{\f4  files and make scalable printer fonts according the instructions that are provided by your font vendor.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, choose the Add Fonts button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Add Fonts dialog box, type the drive and directory where your AutoFont Support files were installed (for example:  C:}{\f4 \\}{\f4 AUTOFONT).}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Font Installer will read the directory and display a list of fonts for which support is a}{\f4 vailable.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 4.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 5.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the list on the right, select the scalable font(s) you want to install.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 6.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Add button. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 7.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Type the destination drive and directory where you want to place your scalable printer fonts (for example:  C:}{\f4 \\}{\f4 PCLFONTS).}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 8.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 9.}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Exit button.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120\sb120 {\f4 Once installed, each font will appear in the list to the left.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Related Topics:}{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \ri120 {\f4\uldb Downloading Soft Fonts and Scalable Typefaces as Temporary or Permanent}{\v\f4 dftp_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Cartridge-based Fonts}{\v\f4 bmfc_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Installing Soft Fonts }{\v\f4 dbsf_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Copying Fonts to Another Printer Port}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Copying Fonts to Another Printer Port}}}{
\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 cfp_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0016}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
moving fonts;copying fonts;fonts;printer ports;permanent;temporary}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Copying or Moving Fonts to Another Printer Port}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 If you are using mo}{\f4 
re than one PCL printer, or if you change the port your printer is connected to, you can use Font Installer to move or copy your installed disk-based or cartridge fonts to the other printer on that port. If you are moving or copying a cartridge font, you 
}{\f4 must also move the physical cartridge to the other printer. }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To move or copy fonts to a new port:}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Font Installer dialog box, choose the Copy Fonts To New Port button. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Copy Fonts To New Port dialog box, select the port you want to use.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 The fonts currently installed on the selected port are listed in the Font Installer dialog box. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 4}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In either the right- or left-hand list (but not both), select the fonts that you want to move or copy. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 When you select a font, an arrow appears between the two boxes indicating the direction of the move or copy. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 5}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the Move or  Copy button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 Font Installer moves or copies the selected fonts to the port shown in the other box. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 6}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 If you are moving or copying disk-based f}{\f4 onts, you can now select Permanent or Temporary for the new port.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 If you are moving or copying cartridge fonts, you also need to select the new cartridge from the Cartridge list in the Printer Setup dialog box for the printer on the port you just  moved or copied the fonts to. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 7}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 When you are finished, choose the Exit button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\b\f4 Related Topic}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb240 {\f4\uldb Downloading Soft Fonts or Scalable Typefaces as Temporary or Permanent}{\v\f4 dftp_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120 {\f4 
\par }{\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Specifying Font Names and Font Families}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Specifying Font Names and Font Famili}{\plain \f3\lang1033 es}}}
{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 sfnff_fi}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 fin:0018}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
Font Metrics dialog box;fonts;family;name;id;permanent;temporary}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Specifying Font Names and Font Families}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\f4 If the Font Installer doesn't recognize the name or family of a font that you select to install, the Font Metrics dialog box appears so that you can enter the information. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 We strongly recommend that you do not change the settings provided by the font manufacturer. Use this option only if absolutely necessary. }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To enter a font name in the Font Metrics dialog box:}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Type the manufacturer's name for the font in the Name box. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Select the family the font belongs to. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li300\ri60\sb60 {\b\f4 Caution:}{\f4  Unless you are very experienced at working with fonts (you create your own fonts or manually download your fonts), do not change any Font ID or Family settings that Font Installer automatically enters. }{\f4 

\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\tx300 {\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose whether you want to install the disk-based font files permanently or temporarily. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120 {\b\f4 Related Topic}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb240 {\f4\uldb Editing Soft Font and Scalable Typeface Names and Attributes}{\v\f4 efn_fi}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120 {\f4 \page }{\f7\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\up6 #}{\f4  scalable}}}{\f7  }{\b\f7 Sca}{\b\f7 lable}{\f7  fonts can be reduced and enlarged and are not limited to a particular point size. }{\f7 \page 
}{\f7\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\up6 #}{\f4  auto_font}}}{\f7  }{\b\f7 AutoFont Support}{\f7  files contain font width information used by Font Installer.  AutoFont Support diskettes are shipped with all new HP font products.
}{\f4 
\par }}