{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\froman Times;}{\f6\fmodern Courier;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;
\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f3\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f3\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 \f6\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{
\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{
\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f3\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}{
\s19\fi-800\li920\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240\tx920 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon28\snext19 Cp;}{\s20\fi-780\li1180\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx1180 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon19\snext20 Cpi;}{\s21\li120\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext21 Gh;}{
\s22\li120\ri240\sa120\sl240 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext22 Gp;}{\s23\li120\ri180\sb180\sa30\sl240 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext23 Jlh;}{\s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext24 Ln1;}{
\s25\fi-280\li400\ri180\sb60\sa120\sl240\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon24\snext25 Lne1;}{\s26\fi-280\li400\ri180\sb60\sa120\sl240\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon5\snext26 Lbe1;}{\s27\fi-280\li400\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext27 Li1;}{\s28\fi-540\li660\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240\tx660 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext28 Np;}{\s29\fi-540\li940\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx940 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon28\snext29 Npi;}{\s30\fi-280\li400\ri180\sb60\sl240\tx400 
\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon24\snext30 Ns;}{\s31\li120\ri180\sb120\sa30\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext31 proch;}{\s32\li120\ri180\sa60\sl240 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext32 Tl;}{\s33\li120\ri180\sb120\sa30\sl240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tlh;}{\s34\li120\ri180\sa120\sl240 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tle;}{\s35\fi-860\li980\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240\tx980 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon28\snext35 Wp;}{\s36\fi-880\li1280\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx1280 
\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon35\snext36 Wpi;}{\s37\fi-400\li520\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240\tx490\tx520 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext37 Lno1;}{\s38\fi-400\li520\ri180\sb60\sa120\sl240\tx490\tx520 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon37\snext38 Lnoe1;}{
\s39\li120\ri180\sa40\sl240 \f4\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext39 Gj;}{\s40\li120\ri180\sb240\sa120\sl240 \f4\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext40 ArtG;}{\s41\li120\ri180\sa30\sl240 \b\f5\lang1033 \sbasedon31\snext41 proch2;}{
\s42\ri115\sb40\sl-240\keep\keepn\tx115\tqr\tx10080 \b\strike\f3\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext42 Headline;}}{\info{\author Eric Artzt}{\creatim\yr1993\mo9\dy20\hr11\min18}{\version1}{\edmins226}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16433}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\HELP31S.DOT}\sectd \linex0 \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f3\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b $ Creating a New Sound File}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b # creating_a_new_sound_file}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b K creating a file}}Creating a New Sound File
{\plain \f3\lang1033 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 The types of files you can create depend on the hardware and drivers you have installed. If you want to play the file on another computer, select options and a format that both computers support.
\par Use this procedure to create an empty file. After creating a new file, you can record sound or paste sound from another file.
\par \pard\plain \s31\li120\ri180\sb120\sa30 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 To create a new sound file{\plain \f4\fs20\lang1033 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 1\tab From the File menu, choose New. 
\par 2\tab Select a sound style by name, or choose a specific format and set of attributes. For information on sound formats and attributes, see {\uldb Sound Selection Dialog Box}{\v SOUND_SELECTION_DIALOG_BOX}.
\par 3\tab Choose the OK button.
\par \pard\plain \s23\li120\ri180\sb180\sa30 \f4\fs20\lang1033 See Also
\par \pard\plain \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\tx400 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb Sound Selection Dialog Box}{\v SOUND_SELECTION_DIALOG_BOX} 
\par {\uldb Defining Sound Styles}{\v DEFINING_SOUND_STYLES}{\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f3\lang1033 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b $ Defining Sound Styles}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b # defining_sound_styles}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b K }{\b sound styles, defining; defining sound styles}}Defining Sound Styles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
Sound Recorder lets you choose among different sound styles defined for the Audio Compression Manager (ACM). These sound styles provide names for different combinations of audio compression techniques and formats. When choosing an audio format for your so
und file, you can use one of the existing styles or define a new one to match your specific requirements.
\par The following procedures describe how to define sound styles for use in Sound Recorder and any other application that uses ACM.
\par \pard\plain \s31\li120\ri180\sb120\sa30\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 To define a new style
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 1\tab From the File menu, choose New.
\par 2\tab From either the Format or the Attributes box, click the arrow to display the available choices. Select the choice you want from the list. For information on audio formats and attributes, see {\uldb Sound Selection Dialog Box}{\v 
SOUND_SELECTION_DIALOG_BOX}.
\par \pard\plain \s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 The style name changes to Untitled when you change the format or attribute.
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 3\tab Choose the Save As button.
\par \pard \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx400 4\tab Type a name for the new style, and choose OK. You return to the Sound Selection dialog box.
\par \pard \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\tx400 5\tab To create an empty audio file using the new sound style, choose OK.
\par \pard\plain \s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 To close the dialog box without creating a new audio file, choose Cancel.
\par \pard\plain \s31\li120\ri180\sb120\sa30\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 To delete a style
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-280\li400\ri180\sa60\sl240\tx400 \f4\fs20\lang1033 1\tab From the File menu, choose New.
\par 2\tab In the Name box, select the style to delete.
\par 3\tab Choose the Remove button.
\par 4\tab To close the Sound Selection dialog box, choose Cancel.
\par \pard\plain \s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b Note} You can't change attributes for an existing style. To change an existing style, delete it, then define a new style using the desired attributes.
\par \pard\plain \s23\li120\ri180\sb180\sa30 \f4\fs20\lang1033 See Also
\par \pard\plain \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\tx400 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb Creating a New Sound File}{\v CREATING_A_NEW_}{\v SOUND_FILE} 
\par {\uldb Sound Selection Dialog Box}{\v SOUND_SELECTION_DIALOG_BOX} 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f3\lang1033 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 $ Sound Selection Dialog Box}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 # sound_selection_dialog_box}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b K }{\b creating a file; sound styles, defining; defining sound styles}}Sound Selection Dialog Box{\plain \f3\lang1033 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 Use this dialog box to choose characteristics for a new sound file, or to define sound styles. The dialog box has the following options:
\par {\b Name}
\par Lists different sound styles defined on your system. Click the arrow to select from a list of sound styles. The Format and Attribute boxes show the audio format and attributes associated with the style.
\par {\b Save As button}
\par Use this button to save a new sound style under a name you choose. You can select a combination of format and attributes, then create a name for the combination.
\par {\b Remove button}
\par Use this button to remove the selected sound style from the list of names.
\par {\b Format}
\par Lists different sound formats. The sound format determines the compression method used when storing the sound. Some standard formats include the following:
\par \pard\plain \s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f3\fs20\lang1033 *\tab PCM: Standard waveform audio format, without compression
\par \pard\plain \s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f3\fs20\lang1033 *\tab Microsoft ADPCM: Compressed audio format, using the Microsoft ADPCM format
\par *\tab IMA ADPCM: Compressed audio format, using the IMA ADPCM format
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\b Attributes}
\par Lists different attribute combinations. Attributes determine the quality and size requirements for the audio data. The attribute combinations vary according to the sound formats.
\par For example, consider the following combination (available when Microsoft ADCPM is selected as the audio format):
\par 22.050 kHz, 4 bits, Stereo    21 kb/sec
\par This audio data has a {\ul sampling frequency}{\v gly_samplingrate} of 22.050 kHz, uses a {\ul sample size}{\v gly_samplesize} of 4 bits per sample, and uses two {\ul channels}{\v gly_channels}
 of sound (stereo). This combination requires 21 KB of storage space per second of audio.
\par {\b OK}
\par Creates an empty sound file with the specified characteristics.
\par {\b Cancel}{\b 
\par }Closes the dialog box without creating a sound file.
\par \pard\plain \s23\li120\ri180\sb180\sa30 \f4\fs20\lang1033 See Also
\par \pard\plain \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\tx400 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb Creating a New Sound File}{\v CREATING_A_NEW_SOUND_FILE} 
\par {\uldb Defining Sound Styles}{\v DEFINING_SOUND_STYLES}{\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\li120\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} gly_samplingrate}} sampling frequency
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 The rate at which digital audio samples are taken. Higher sampling frequencies provide better fidelity but require more storage space.
\par \pard\plain \s21\li120\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} gly_samplesize}} sample size
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 The amount of storage space used for each digitized portion of the audio. Larger sample sizes provide greater dynamic range and therefore better audio reproduction, but they require more storage space.

\par \pard\plain \s21\li120\ri180\sb60\sa60\sl240 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} gly_channels}} channels
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f3\fs20\lang1033 Mono, or monophonic sound, stores the entire sound recording as one track of data.
\par Stereo, or stereophonic sound, stores a sound recording as two tracks of data. For example, voices might be recorded on one data track and instrumental accompaniment on the second data track. 
\par Stereo sound files can provide higher recording quality than mono sound files but also require double the storage of mono sound files. To create stereo files, you need a stereo microphone and a sound card that supports stereo recording. 
\par 
\par }