{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\fswiss Chicago;}{\f4\fswiss Geneva;}{\f5\fmodern Monaco;}{\f6\froman Times;}{\f7\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f8\fmodern Courier;}
{\f9\froman CG Times (WN);}{\f10\fswiss Univers (WN);}{\f11\fswiss CG Triumv (WN);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs18\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sl-240 \i\f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sl-240 
\i\f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sl-240 \i\f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sl-240 \f7\fs20\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sl-240 \b\f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360\sl-240 
\f7\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360\sl-240 \b\f7 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sl-240 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb240\sl-240 \b\f2\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720\sl-240 \f7\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li360\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 j;}{\s3\fi-240\li520\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext3 ij;}{\s4\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext4 btb;}{
\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext5 ns;}{\s6\li120\sb120\sa40\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext6 H;}{\s7\li120\sb120\sa20\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext7 RT;}{\s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext8 TT;}{
\s9\li120\sb240\sa40\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext9 c;}{\s10\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext10 nsb;}{\s11\fi-240\li480\sb80\tx480 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext11 nscba;}{\s12\fi-240\li2400\sb20\sa20 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext12 ctcb;}{
\s13\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext13 nsor;}{\s14\li1560\sb60\sl-240 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext14 msor;}{\s15\fi-240\li2400\sa20 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext15 crtj;}{\s16\fi-240\li480\tx480 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext16 nsca;}{\s17\li2160\sa20 \f7 
\sbasedon0\snext17 ct;}{\s18\li360\sb40\sl-200 \f7\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext18 nsc;}{\s19\fi-1800\li1920\sb120\sa40\tx1920 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext19 HC2;}{\s20\fi-1800\li1920\sb60\tx1920 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext20 C2;}{\s21\li240\sa20 \f7 
\sbasedon0\snext21 it;}{\s22\li120\sb40\sl-200 \f7\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext22 ctc;}{\s23\li480 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 nsct;}{\s24\fi-160\li400\sb80\sa40 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext24 nscb;}{\s25\fi-1440\li1560\sb120\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 \f7\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext25 ks;}{\s26\li1560\sb40\sl-200 \f7\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext26 msc;}{\s27\fi-240\li1560\sb60\sl-240\tx1560 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext27 msb;}{\s28\li2160\sb160 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext28 crt;}{\s29\fi-2880\li3120\sb120\sa20\tx2880 \f7 
\sbasedon0\snext29 mk;}{\s30\fi-1440\li1560\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext30 ms;}{\s31\li3120\sb20\sa20 \f7\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext31 mkc;}{\s32\fi-240\li3120\sb120\sa20 \f7 \sbasedon0\snext32 mks;}{\s33\li3120\sb40\sa20 \f7 
\sbasedon0\snext33 mkor;}}{\info{\author Steve Moser}{\operator Robert F. Shaffer}{\creatim\yr1990\mo7\dy19\hr15\min10}{\revtim\yr1991\mo1\dy11\hr2\min30}{\printim\yr1991\mo10\dy22\hr11\min31}{\version3}{\edmins1935}{\nofpages23}{\nofwords68163}
{\nofchars82191}{\vern8368}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart\revbar0\revprop0 \sectd \linex0\colsx0\endnhere \pard\plain \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f7 {\f2 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {PCL 5 Printer Driver Help Contents}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {PCL 5 Printer Driver Help Contents}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {drvidx_idx_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0001}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {
index;contents;topics}} }{\b\f2 PCL 5 Printer Driver Help Contents}{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s6\li120\sb120\sa40\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\b\f2 Help Topics}{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\fi-245\li518\sl288 \f7\fs20 {\f2\uldb Cartridges}{\v\f2 c_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}{\v\f2 compatible}{\f2\uldb 
\par Copies}{\v\f2 nc_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Defining Printer Memory}{\v\f2 dpm_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Fonts Button}{\v\f2 fonts_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Graphics Resolution}{\v\f2 gr_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Options}{\v\f2 so_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Orientation}{\v\f2 o_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Page Protection}{\v\f2 pp_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Paper Sizes}{\v\f2 papsize}{\f2\uldb 
\par }\pard \s3\fi-240\li520\sl48 {\f2\uldb Paper Source}{\v\f2 psps_hp}{\f2\uldb 
\par Unlisted Cartridge-based Scalable Typeface Installation}{\v\f2 method3
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s8 \f7 {\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\f2 Copyright \'a9 1992 by Hewlett-Packard Company}{\f2\revised \page }{\f2 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 
{\plain \f7 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 compatible}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 pcl:0049}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 
compatible fonts;fonts, compatible;typefaces, compatible}}}{\plain \b\f2 Compatible Fonts and Typefaces
\par }{\plain \b\f2\up6 
\par }{\f2 Fonts installed through the HP Font Installer must be in one of the following forms:
\par 
\par 
\par \tab *   }{\b\f2 Bitmapped-printer (soft) fonts}{\f2  -- disk-based 
\par }\pard \li1260\sl-240 {\b\f2 
\par }{\f2\fs16 
Disk-based (soft) bitmapped printer fonts must be in PCL format.  These fonts have various file extensions.  For example, soft fonts from HP's Type Director  use .SFP and .SFL.  HP's older soft font products such as the AC, AE, AG, DA, DC products have fi
le extensions like .USP, .USL, .R8P, .R8L, etc.
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 \tab *   }{\b\f2 Fonts installed through the AutoFont Support Utility }{\f2  
\par 
\par }\pard \li1267\sl-240 {\f2\fs16 AutoFont Support uses a file called GLUE.TXT
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 
\par \tab *   }{\b\f2 Cartridge fonts }{\f2 -- Printer Cartridge Metric (PCM) files
\par 
\par Additionally, if you have }{\i\f2\ul Intellifont-for-Windows}{\v\f2 intelli}{\i\f2 ,}{\f2  you can also use the HP Font Installer to install
\par 
\par \tab *   }{\b\f2 Scalable typeface products -- }{\f2 disk-based or cartridge based}{\b\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard \li1170\sl-240 {\f2\fs16 Scalable typeface products must be in AGFA Compugraphic's FAIS format.  All other font products require AutoFont Support files or PCM files.
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\sa120\sl-274 \f7 {\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Cartridges}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Cartridges}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {c_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain 
\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl: 0030}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {font cartridges;cartridges;PCM files;installing fonts;unlisted cartridges;fonts, installing;cartridges, unlisted;}} }{\b\f2 Cartridges
\par }\pard\plain \f7\fs20 {\f2 Support is already included for many of Hewlett-Packard's scalable typeface and bitmapped cartridges with the PCL 5 Printer Driver.   Be sure to select a cartridge }{\b\f2 before}{\f2 
 you format your documents.  The cartridge you select includes a list of fonts and point sizes that you will be able to use in your Windows applications.  
\par 
\par You will not need to use the }{\b\f2 Fonts}{\f2  button or the HP Font Installer if your cartridge is listed (unless you need to install matching screen fonts for the }{\i\f2\ul Intellifont-for-Windows}{\v\f2 Intelli}{\f2  program).
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Unlisted Cartridges
\par }{\f2 
\par If you have a font cartridge that is unlisted, you must install AutoFont Support files
\par (TFM) or a Printer Cartridge Metric (PCM) file which supports the fonts through the
\par HP Font Installer.
\par 
\par If you do not have }{\f2\ul AutoFont Support}{\v\f2 Auto_font}{\f2  diskettes for HP font products, contact your HP dealer for information about ordering them.
\par 
\par If you purchased a font cartridge from a company other than HP, call that company to see if a Windows 3.1 PCM file or AutoFont Support file is available.
\par 
\par For specific instructions on the procedures to install new (unlisted) cartridges, click  here:  }{\b\f2\uldb Unlisted Cartridges}{\v\f2 method3
\par }{\b\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s4 \f7\fs20 {\b\f2\uldb Font Installer}{\v\f2 fonts_hp}{\b\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f7 {\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Copies}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Copies}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {nc_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain 
\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0035}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {copies;number of copies;}} }{\b\f2 Copies}{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \li115 \f7\fs20 {\f2 The }{\b\f2 Copies}{\f2  selection tells Windows how many }{\f2\ul uncollated}{\v\f2 uncoll}{\f2 
 copies you want to print from a software application. This setting is independent of the "copies selection" that may be available within the print menus of your software application.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Do not use the two selections simultaneously.}{\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\li120 \f7\fs20 {\f2 As a general rule:  Set the number of copies in the PCL 5 Printer Driver window when you want to print uncollated copies.  When you want sets of }{\f2\ul collated}{\v\f2 coll}{\f2 
 copies, select the number of copies from within your software application.
\par }\pard\plain \li115 \f7\fs20 {\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li120 \f7 {\f2\fs20 You should experiment to determine which selection works best for the  jobs you print.}{\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Defining Printer Memory}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 
{Defining Printer Memory}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {dpm_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0015}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {memory options;printer memory;}} }{\b\f2 Defining Printer Memory

\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \li120 \f7\fs20 {\f2 The }{\b\f2 Memory}{\f2 
 selection, which defines the amount of memory installed in a printer, should be configured to match your printer.  Windows uses this information to determine the amount of memory you have available for printing.
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li115 \f7 {\f2\fs20 
\par The HP LaserJet III, IIID and IIIP printers
 come with a minimum of 1 megabyte of memory, standard, and can be expanded to 5 megabytes.  The HP LaserJet IIISi printer can be expanded up to 17 megabytes.  If you are unsure how much memory is installed in your printer, you can run a }{\f2\fs20\ul 
Self Test}{\v\f2\fs20 self_test}{\f2\fs20  printout using your printer's control panel.
\par 
\par }\pard \s8\li115\sa120\sl-274 {\f2\fs20 Additional printer memory can eliminate memory overflows (Error 20) if you print complex forms, full-page graphics and/or download many fonts.  
\par }{\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Fonts Button}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Fonts Button}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {fonts_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0050}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {fonts;installing fonts;typefaces, installing;fonts, installing;scalable typefaces;scalable fonts;font installer;fonts button;}}}{\b\f2 Fonts Button
\par }\pard\plain \s4\sb86\sl-274 \f7\fs20 {\f2 By clicking on the }{\b\f2 Fonts }{\f2 button you can access the }{\b\f2 HP Font Installer}{\f2  where you can install new printer fonts or, if you have }{\i\f2\ul Intellifont-for-Windows}{\v\f2 Intelli}{\f2 
 scalable typefaces.  Step-by-step procedures for installing fonts can be found in the HP Font Installer help screens.
\par You can install any PCL compatible printer fonts with the HP Font Installer.
\par 
\par }\pard \s4\li115 {\b\f2\uldb Compatible Fonts}{\v\f2 compatible}{\plain \f2\up6 \page }{\f2 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Graphics Resolution}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Graphics Resolution}}#
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 gr_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 pcl:0025}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 
graphics resolution;resolution;dots per inch (dpi);graphic images;Error 20;}}}{\plain \f2  }{\plain \b\f2 Graphics Resolution
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \li120 \f7\fs20 {\f2 The Graphics Resolution settings in the printer setup dialog box affect the resolution of graphic images only, not text.
\par 
\par Graphics resolution is measured in }{\b\f2 dots per inch}{\f2  (dpi). Choosing 300 dpi will produce finer, higher-quality output.  The output quality decreases as the resolution decreases to 150 and 75 dpi. However, on most pr
inters, higher resolution output will take longer to print.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\li120 \f7\fs20 {\f2 
The Hewlett-Packard LaserJet III family of printers requires at least one additional megabyte of memory in order to print 300 dpi graphics for a full page.  The printers have enough resident memory to print 300 dpi graphics for half a page or to print 75 
dpi or 150 dpi graphics for a full page.  
\par 
\par If the printer does not print the entire graphic image on one page and displays an "Error 20" message, then most likely the printer has run out of m
emory. You either need to install more memory in your printer or choose a lower graphics resolution setting.
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li120 \f7 {\f2 
\par }\pard \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 {\b\f2\fs20\uldb Memory}{\v\f2\fs20 dpm_hp}{\f2\fs20  }{\f2\fs20\uldb 
\par }{\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Orientation}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Orientation}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {o_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0020}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {orientation;landscape;portrait;}} }{\b\f2 Orientation}{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\f2 
Print orientation can be Portrait or Landscape. Portrait orientation means the page is taller than it is wide when you view the printed text upright. Landscape orientation means the page is wider than it is tall when you view the printed text upright.

\par 
\par }{\b\f2 NOTE: }{\f2  For HP LaserJet IIID or IIISi printers, when printing in duplex (double-sided) mode, orientation is an important consideration that affects the }{\f2\ul binding}{\v\f2 bind_hp}{\f2  setup of your documents.
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li115\sa120\sl-274 \f7 {\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Page Protection}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Page Protection}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pp_hp}}+{\footnote 
\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0017}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {page protection;Error 21;}} }{\b\f2 Page Protection}{\f2 
\par }\pard\plain \li115 \f7\fs20 {\f2 "Page Protection" refers to a setting that reserves additional memory for the creation of page images.  Page protection is only available if you have installed at least 1 megabyte of optional memory in your printer. 

\par 
\par The selections, which are related to the size of the paper source you usually use, should match the selection on your printer's control panel settings.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\li115 \f7\fs20 {\f2 The default is }{\b\f2 off.}{\f2   Other selections are }{\b\f2 LTR}{\f2  (letter-size paper), }{\b\f2 A4}{\f2 , or }{\b\f2 LGL}{\f2  (legal-size paper). To verify how your printer is configured, you can run a }{
\f2\ul Self Test}{\v\f2 self_test}{\f2  on your printer.
\par 
\par The page protection feature allows the printer to create an entire page image in memory before physically moving the paper through the printer. This process ensures that the entire page will be printed and helps eliminate the "21 PRINT OVERRUN" error that
 can sometimes appear on the display of your printer.
\par }\pard\plain \li115 \f7\fs20 {\b\f2 
\par NOTE: }{\f2 This setting does not change any settings within your printer.  In order to set Page Protection you must configure your printer using the printer's control panel.  Refer to your printer user's manual for more information.
\par   
\par \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Paper Source}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Paper Source}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 psps_hp}}+{\footnote \pard\plain 
\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 pcl:0010}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 paper, source;upper tray;lower tray;manual feed;auto select;}} }{\plain \b\f2 Paper Source}{\b\f2  }{\f2  }{\f2\uldb 
\par 
\par }{\f2 If you are unsure about which paper source and paper size is used in your printer, you can run a }{\f2\ul Self Test}{\v\f2 self_test}{\f2  printout on your printer.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Paper Source
\par }{\f2 
\par For a }{\b\f2 HP LaserJet III}{\f2  printer, which has one paper tray, you can choose
\par 
\par \tab *  Upper tray
\par \tab *  Envelope
\par \tab *  }{\f2\ul Manual Feed}{\v\f2 manual}{\f2  
\par 
\par 
\par For a }{\b\f2 HP LaserJet IIIP }{\f2 printer, which has up to two paper trays, you can choose
\par 
\par \tab *  Upper tray
\par \tab *  Lower tray
\par  \tab *  Envelope
\par \tab *  }{\f2\ul Manual Feed}{\v\f2 manual}{\f2 
\par 
\par For }{\b\f2 HP LaserJet IIID and IIISi}{\f2  printers, which have two paper trays and an optional envelope feeder, you can choose: 
\par 
\par \tab *  Upper tray
\par \tab *  Lower tray
\par \tab *  Envelope
\par \tab *  Manual Feed
\par \tab *  }{\f2\ul Auto Select}{\v\f2 auto_select}{\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\li115 \f7\fs20 {\f2 If you choose Manual or Envelope for the paper source, the PCL 5 Printer Driver will use this selection only until you exit Windows. The next time you start Windows, the paper source selection 
will revert to the default paper tray.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 \page }{\f2 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Paper Size}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Paper Size}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 papsize}}+{\footnote \pard\plain 
\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 pcl:0011}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 paper, size;size, paper;}}}{\plain \b\f2 Paper Size}{\b\f2 
\par 
\par }{\f2 The PCL 5 Printer Driver lets you select four sizes of paper and four sizes of envelopes.
\par 
\par Letter\tab \tab 8.5 x 11 inches
\par Legal\tab \tab 8.5 x 14 inches
\par A4\tab \tab 210 x 297 mm
\par Executive\tab 7.25 x 10.5 inches
\par 
\par Envelopes
\par   COM-10\tab 4 1/8 x 9 1/2 inches
\par   Monarch\tab 3 7/8 x 7 1/2 inches
\par   DL\tab \tab 110 x 220 mm
\par   C5\tab \tab 162 x 229 mm  (not available with the LaserJet IIISi printer)
\par   
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f7 {\f2 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Special Options}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {Special Options}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {so_hp}}+{\footnote 
\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {pcl:0045}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {options;special options;printing;duplex printing;output bin;job separation}} }{\b\f2 Special Options
\par }{\f2\fs20 The Special Options dialog box allows you to select or change the following:
\par Gray Scale Settings -- For the HP LaserJet III family of printers
\par Duplex Printing -- For LaserJet IIID and IIISi printers
\par Output Bin -- For the LaserJet IIISi printer
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\f2 Job Separation -- For the LaserJet IIISi printer
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 
\par For more information about any of these options, select the }{\b\f2 Help}{\f2  button from the }{\b\f2 Options}{\f2  menu.\page ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 
Unlisted Cartridge-based Scalable Typeface Installation Through Intellifont-for-Windows;}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 Unlisted Cartridge-based Scalable Typeface Installation Through Intellifont-for-Windows;}}#{\footnote 
\pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 method3}}+{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 pcl:0013}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\plain \f7 unlisted cartridges;cartridges, unlisted;typefaces, instal
ling;fonts, installing;installing fonts;installing typefaces;}}}{\plain \b\f2 Unlisted Cartridge-based Scalable Typeface Installation
\par }{\plain \f2\up6 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 Because you will have to exit Windows in order to complete this task, we recommend that you print this help topic.  Choose }{\b\f2 Print Topic}{\f2  from the "File" box above.
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 Follow the steps below to install scalable typeface cartridges that are not already listed in the Windows 3.1 printer }{\b\f2 Setup}{\f2  box:
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\b\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 This procedure will create cartridge support files and allow selection of the cartridge name.  It will also install matching screen fonts for WYSIWYG display when }{\i\f2 Intellifont-for-Windows}{\f2  is }{\b\f2 on.}{\f2 
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\f2 
\par }{\plain \b\f2 
\par Step A -- Install Support Files
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-270\li270\sl-240 {\f2 1.  Completely exit Windows and return to a DOS prompt.  (Do not use the DOS icon in Windows.
\par 
\par 2.\tab Follow the instructions provided by your font vendor for installing AutoFont Support or Printer Cartridge Metric (PCM) files.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\li900\sl-240 {\b\f2\fs16 NOTE: }{\f2\fs16  If your AutoFont Support installation asks you if your printer supports screen fonts, answer }{\b\f2\fs16 YES}{\f2\fs16 .  The AutoFont Support installer will place the screen fonts in the C:\\TD\\
TYPE directory.
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\plain \b\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\plain \b\f2 Step B -- Activating Your Scalable Cartridge in Windows
\par }{\b\f2 
\par }{\f2 Before you can select cartridge-based typefaces or fonts in your Windows applications, you must activate the cartridge name in the printer }{\b\f2 Setup}{\f2  menu.  Follow these steps:
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 
\par 1.  From the Program Manager's }{\b\f2 Main}{\f2  window, double-click on }{\b\f2 Control Panel.
\par 
\par }{\f2 2.  Double-click on the }{\b\f2 Printers}{\f2  icon.
\par 
\par 3.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Setup}{\f2  button. 
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\sl-240 {\f2 4.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Fonts}{\f2  button.  
\par 
\par 5.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Add Fonts...}{\f2  button.
\par 
\par 6.  Type in the location of the AutoFont Support files as the source drive and directory.  The default is C:\\AUTOFONT, then click on }{\b\f2 OK.}{\f2 
\par 
\par 7.  Highlight the cartridge name and click on the }{\b\f2 Add...}{\f2  button.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\sl-240 {\f2 
\par }{\f2\fs18 The cartridge name will appear in the box on the right.  (There will be a small cartridge icon beside the name.)
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\f2\fs22 
\par }{\f2 8.  We recommend you accept the default printer font directory (C:\\PCLFONTS).   Click on }{\b\f2 OK.  }{\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 
\par }\pard \sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 9.  Click on }{\b\f2 Exit }{\f2 to return to the setup window.}{\b\f2 
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\b\f2 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 10.  In the setup window, highlight the name of your new cartridge in the Cartridges box.  Then click on }{\b\f2 OK.}{\f2 
\par 
\par 11.  Click on }{\b\f2 OK}{\f2  to advance through the remaining windows until you return to the ControlPanel window.  Close the Control Panel.
\par }\pard \li120\sl240\tx360\tx1080\tx2520 {\f2 
\par Continue with step "C" to install screen fonts only if you have }{\i\f2 Intellifont-for-Windows.
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\b\f2 
\par }{\plain \b\f2 Step C -- Installing Matching Screen Fonts
\par }{\f2 
\par 1.  From the Program Manager's}{\b\f2  Accessory}{\f2  window, double-click on the }{\b\f2 Intellifont}{\f2  icon.
\par 
\par 2.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Fonts}{\f2  button.  
\par 
\par 3.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Add Fonts...}{\f2  button.
\par 
\par 4.  Type in the drive and directory where the AutoFont Support installer placed your screen font files (for example, C:\\TD\\TYPE) or insert your screen font diskette into your }{\b\f2 A:}{\f2  drive.  Then click on }{\b\f2 OK.}{\f2 
\par 
\par 5.  Highlight typeface(s) you want to install as screen fonts. You may highlight more than one.
\par 
\par 6.  Click on the }{\b\f2 Add... }{\f2  button.
\par 
\par 7.  Highlight a }{\f2\ul symbol set}{\v\f2 symbol}{\f2  and click on }{\b\f2 OK.
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard \li432\sl-240 {\f2\fs18 We recommend that you select }{\b\f2\fs18 Cartridge - Screen fonts only,}{\f2\fs18 
 which will give you access to the characters in the WN: Windows symbol set.  However, you can choose any symbol set you want.  If you need characters for a special application (such as math, legal or dingbats), refer to the symbol set charts in the appen
dix of your printer user's manual. 
\par }\pard \fi-288\li432\sl-240 {\f2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\sl-240 {\f2 8. Indicate the destination drive and directory where you want to store your screen fonts. We recommend the default C:\\TD\\TYPE.  Click on }{\b\f2 OK.
\par }\pard \qj\li432\sl-240 {\b\f2 
\par }{\f2\fs18 Use the }{\i\f2\fs18 same}{\f2\fs18 
 directory as you did in step 4 so that duplicate files will not be made. Once installed, the scalable typeface(s) will appear on the left side of the screen under the heading "PCL/HP LaserJet on [port]."  Scalable screen fonts can be recognized by a smal
l dot ( \'b7 ) before the typeface name.
\par }\pard \li720\sl-240 {\f2\fs18 
\par }\pard \fi-288\li288\sl-240 {\f2 9. Click on }{\b\f2 Exit}{\f2   until you return to your original window.
\par 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f2 You will now be able to select fonts from your scalable typeface cartridge within your software applications.\page }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} self_test}}{\f2 
 To run a Self Test printout on your HP LaserJet III, IIID, or IIISi printer, take your printer off-line (light out), press and hold down 
the TEST button on your printer's control panel until 05 SELF TEST appears.  A printout will be generated in a few moments.
\par 
\par On the HP LaserJet IIIP printer, take your printer off-line, lightly press the ALT button and the TEST button at the same time.  The printer's control panel will read 05 SELF TEST.
\par A printout will be generated in a few moments.
\par \page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} Auto_font}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 AutoFont Support}{\f2   files contain font metric information used by the HP Font Installer.
\par \page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} wysiwyg}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 WYSIWYG}{\f2  is an acronym for "What You See Is What Your Get." The screen fonts that appear on your display match the fonts used in your printer.
\par \page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} type_font}}{\f2  The term }{\b\f2 scalable}{\f2 
 describes products that can be reduced or enlarged (scaled) to virtually any point size that your Windows 3.1 application will support.
\par 
\par Conversely, }{\b\f2 bitmapped}{\f2  fonts are limited to an exact point size.  A bitmapped font can not be reduced or enlarged (non-scalable).
\par \page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} driver}}{\f2  A  }{\b\f2 driver}{\f2 
 is a portion of software code that controls commands sent to a device such as a printer or screen.  Drivers work automatically so that you don't have to enter programming codes.  Drivers allow you to select fonts, set margins, number of copies, etc.
\page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} uncoll}}{\f2 In multiple page jobs that are }{\b\f2 uncollated, }{\f2 
several copies of page One are printed followed by several copies of page Two, followed by several copies of page Three, etc.
\par \page 
\par }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} coll}}{\f2  In multiple page jobs that are }{\b\f2 collated,}{\f2 
 a complete set of pages in a job are printed followed by another complete set of pages.   For example:  One copy of Page 1, then Page 2, then Page 3; followed by another copy of Page 1, then Page 2, then Page 3.
\par }{\f2\up6 \page #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} Intelli}}{\i\f2 Intellifont-for-Windows}{\f2 
 is a software program from Hewlett-Packard that includes a special screen font driver in addition to the PCL 5 Printer Driver and HP Font Installer.  With }{\i\f2 Intellifont-for-Windows  }{\f2 
loaded, scalable typeface products can be directly installed to produce both printer fonts and screen fonts.
\par 
\par }{\i\f2 Intellifont-for-Windows}{\f2  requires an IBM PC-AT or compatible (286 and above), an HP LaserJet III family printer, and a minimum of 2 megabytes of extended RAM.
\par Call 303-353-7650 to order a free copy (USA and Canada only).
\par \page }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} manual}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Manual feed}{\f2 
 is often used for printing non-standard sizes of paper, envelopes, labels and transparencies.  Also, when an occasional page of special paper, such as letter-head or colored paper, is wanted without having to open and load a paper tray.
\par \page }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} auto_select}}{\f2  If }{\b\f2 Auto Select}{\f2 
 is used for a HP LaserJet IIID or IIISi printer when both input paper trays have the same size of paper, the printer will automatically print from the upper tray until it is empty, then continue printing from the lower tray.
\par 
\par Auto Select can also be used if you store different size paper (for example, letter-size paper in one tray and legal-size paper in the other). \page }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\f2\up6 #}{\f2  symbol}}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 
Symbol sets}{\f2 
 are unique groupings of characters in a font.  Each symbol set is defined with a specific set of applications in mind.  WN: Windows is the default symbol set.  Other symbol sets are used for math and multi-language purposes.  Refer to your printer user's
 manual for charts showing all the characters in symbol sets.\page }{\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f7\fs20 {\fs18\up6 #} bind_hp}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Binding}{\f2 
 refers to the process of joining a stack of printed sheets with stitches (staples), three-hole, glue or some other means.
\par 
\par }}