{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fswiss Chicago;}{\f6\fswiss Geneva;}{\f7\fmodern Monaco;}
{\f8\froman Times;}{\f9\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f10\fmodern Courier;}{\f11\froman CG Times (WN);}{\f12\fswiss Univers (WN);}{\f13\fswiss CG Triumv (WN);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sl-240 \f9\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sl-240 \i\f9\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sl-240 \i\f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sl-240 \i\f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sl-240 \f9\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{
\s250\li720\sl-240 \b\f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360\sl-240 \f9\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360\sl-240 \b\f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sl-240 \b\f4\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb240\sl-240 \b\f4\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li360\sl-240 
\f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext2 j;}{\s3\fi-240\li520\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext3 ij;}{\s4\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext4 btb;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext5 ns;}{
\s6\li120\sb120\sa40\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext6 H;}{\s7\li120\sb120\sa20\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext7 RT;}{\s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext8 TT;}{\s9\li120\sb240\sa40\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext9 c;}{\s10\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext10 nsb;}{\s11\fi-240\li480\sb80\tx480 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext11 nscba;}{\s12\fi-240\li2400\sb20\sa20 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext12 ctcb;}{
\s13\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext13 nsor;}{\s14\li1560\sb60\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext14 msor;}{\s15\fi-240\li2400\sa20 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext15 crtj;}{\s16\fi-240\li480\tx480 \f9\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext16 nsca;}{\s17\li2160\sa20 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext17 ct;}{\s18\li360\sb40\sl-200 \f9\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 nsc;}{\s19\fi-1800\li1920\sb120\sa40\tx1920 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 HC2;}{
\s20\fi-1800\li1920\sb60\tx1920 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext20 C2;}{\s21\li240\sa20 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext21 it;}{\s22\li120\sb40\sl-200 \f9\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext22 ctc;}{\s23\li480 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext23 nsct;}{
\s24\fi-160\li400\sb80\sa40 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext24 nscb;}{\s25\fi-1440\li1560\sb120\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext25 ks;}{\s26\li1560\sb40\sl-200 \f9\fs18\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext26 msc;}{
\s27\fi-240\li1560\sb60\sl-240\tx1560 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext27 msb;}{\s28\li2160\sb160 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext28 crt;}{\s29\fi-2880\li3120\sb120\sa20\tx2880 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext29 mk;}{\s30\fi-1440\li1560\sl-240\tx1320\tx1560 
\f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext30 ms;}{\s31\li3120\sb20\sa20 \f9\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext31 mkc;}{\s32\fi-240\li3120\sb120\sa20 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext32 mks;}{\s33\li3120\sb40\sa20 \f9\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext33 mkor;}}{\info
{\author Steve Moser}{\operator Steve Moser}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy28\hr8\min41}{\revtim\yr1991\mo6\dy28\hr8\min41}{\printim\yr1991\mo9\dy17\hr17\min48}{\version2}{\edmins75}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords66346}{\nofchars70695}{\vern16504}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart\revbar0\revprop0 \sectd \linex0\colsx0\endnhere \pard\plain \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f9\lang1033 {\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 
\f9\fs20\lang1033 Contents for Options Help}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 Contents for Options Help}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 hlpidx_idx_op}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 
\f9\fs20\lang1033 op:0001}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 index;contents;topics}}{\b\f4 Contents for Options Help}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s6\li120\sb120\sa40\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\b\f4 Help Topics}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\fi22\li360\sl288 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\uldb Gray Scale Settings}{\v\f4 grsc_hp}{\f4\uldb 
\par }{\f4\uldb Duplex Printing}{\v\f4 duplx}{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Output Bin}{\v\f4 bins}{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Job Separation}{\v\f4 separ}{\f4\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \fi22\li360\ri120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\uldb Print TrueType Fonts As Graphics}{\v\f4 truetype_how_uni}{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\fi-245\li518\sl288 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s8 \f9\lang1033 {\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 {\f4\fs20 Copyright }{\f4\fs20 \'a9}{\f4\fs20  1992 by Hewlett-Packard Company}{\f4\revised \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 Gray Scale Settings}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 
\f9\fs20\lang1033 Gray Scale Settings}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 grsc_hp}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 op:0002}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 
gray scale;graphic images;half-tones;Photographic Images;Line Art Images; HP ScanJet Images;clip art;shades;}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Gray Scale Settings}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \li115 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\b\f4 Gray scale}{\f4  refers to a type of pattern that is applied to printed images.  Though HP LaserJet printers print only black, these patterns produce a "gray" appearance on the printed page.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The best way to choose a setting for your graphic image is to }{\b\f4 experiment. }{\f4  Print a graphic image at each setting and choose the one you like best.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 To help you decide which selection to choo}{\f4 se, the three settings are described here:}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Photographic Images}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Choose this setting for printed images that you want to have smooth, realistic and photographic appearance.  The }{\b\f4 Photographic Images }{\f4 
setting provides soft contrasts between various shades of gray.  This setting also works well for images originally designed with color.  The PCL 5 Printer Driver uses an 8 bit-by-8 bit "clustered dot" method to emulate 60 different levels of gray at this
}{\f4  setting.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Line Art Images}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Choose this set}{\f4 ting for graphic images with intricate lines and fine detail, like "clip art" graphics.  The }{\b\f4 Line Art Images }{\f4 
setting provides solid lines and sharp contrasts between shaded areas.  The PCL 5 Printer Driver uses 32 different 8 bit-by-8 bit "dispersed dot" patterns to produce gray tones.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 HP ScanJet Images}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\li120\sa120\sl-280 \f9\lang1033 {\f4\fs20 Choose this setting if your graphic images were originally scanned in through an HP ScanJet.  The }{\b\f4\fs20 HP ScanJet Images}{\f4\fs20 
 setting is specially tuned to provide exceptional quality and clarity to printed imag}{\f4\fs20 
es originally scanned with an HP ScanJet.  The PCL 5 Printer Driver uses a variation of the 8 bit-by-8 bit "clustered dot" method used in the Photographic Images setting.  This method also produces 60 different levels of gray.}{\f4 \page }{\f4 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 Duplex Printing}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 Duplex Printing}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 duplx}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain 
\li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 op:0003}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 options;duplex printing;two-sided printing;binding;setup;long-edge;short-edge;LaserJet IIID;LaserJet IIISi;}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Duplex Printing}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Duplex (two-sided) printing is available }{\f4 standard with HP LaserJet IIID printers and as an option with HP LaserJet IIISi printers.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The default selection is "None" for single-sided printing. If you want to print in duplex mode, you should determine how your finished document will be bound:}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 "Long-edge" }{\f4\ul binding}{\v\f4 bind_hp}{\f4 
 setup in portrait orientation is used for conventional layouts in book binding. Long-edge in landscape orientation is often used in accounting and spreadsheet applications because pages can be flipped through as on a clipboard.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 "Sh}{\f4 ort-edge" binding setup in portrait orientation is often used for calendar-like books.  Short-edge in landscape orientation is another variation of conventional book layouts.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 NOTE:}{\f4   If you have a LaserJet IIID printer and you select duplex, you must use the upper output tray (bin).}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 
\par }{\plain \f4\up6\lang1033 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f4 \page }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} bind_hp}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Binding}{\f4  refers to the process of joining a stack of printed sheets with stitches (staples), three-hole, glue or some other means.}{\f12 

\par }\pard \sl-240 {\plain \f4\up6\lang1033 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 Output Bin Selection}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 Output Bin Selection}
}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 bins}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 op:0004}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain 
\f9\lang1033 output bin; bins; upper output tray; lower output tray;output tray;correct order; reverse order;rear output tray;job offset;job separation;LaserJet IIISi;}}}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Output Bin Selection}{\plain 
\b\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 With the HP LaserJet IIISi printer, you can choose to have your printed pages output to either the upper (top) output bin or the lower (rear) output bin by making a selection in the Special Options dialog box.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Upper}{\f4  -- Choose upper, the default, when you want pages to exit the printer and stack face down in the upper output bi}{\f4 
n.  Pages sent to the upper bin are said to stack in "correct order," which means page two will follow page one.  If you select the upper tray you can use the Job Separation feature of the LaserJet IIISi printer.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Lower}{\f4 
 -- Choose lower if you want pages to exit the printer and stack face up in the lower output bin.  Pages sent to the lower bin stack in "reverse order," which means that the last page comes out on top.   In addition to the selection made in this window, r
}{\f4 emember to  physically prepare your }{\f4 printer by opening the door and extending the lower (rear) output bin.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4\uldb Job Separation}{\v\f4 separ}{\f4  }{\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 Job Separation}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 Job Separation
}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 separ}}}{\f4 +{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f9\lang1033 op:0005}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain 
\f9\lang1033 job separation;job offset; offset;separation;LaserJet IIISi;collating;upper output tray;bins}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033  Job Separation }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The HP LaserJet IIISi printer has the ability to offset (shift position) every other print job that is sent to the upper output bin.  An "X" in the box indicates that Job Separation is ON.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If Job Separation is ON, every other print job sent to the upper output bin will be offset.  This makes it easy to determine where one job ends and the next begins.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If Job Separation is OFF, every print job will stack directly on top of the previous job.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 NOTE: }{\f4 If you are printing from a network server, job separation is best administered at the network level; therefore the Job Separation selection should be OFF.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4\uldb Output Bin}{\v\f4 bins}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li60\ri120\sb120\sl-240 {\f4 \page }{\f4 ${\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 Printing TrueType Fonts As Graphics}}}{\f4 #{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 
truetype_how_uni}}}{\f4 K{\footnote \pard\plain \li120\sl-240 \f9\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \f3\lang1033 TrueType fonts: printing;graphics: printing TrueType fonts as}}}{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Printing TrueType Fonts As Graphics}{\plain \f4\lang1033  }{\plain 
\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 
If your printer supports printing TrueType fonts as graphics and your document contains a lot of graphics but not a lot of repeated TrueType text, it is recommended that you use this feature. If your document does not contain a lot of different TrueType f
}{\f4 onts, printing them as graphics requires less printer memory and may speed up printing time. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 This option is also useful if you want to print graphics over}{\f4  text such that only the exposed portion of a character is displayed. }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 To print TrueType fonts as graphics}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-240\li300\ri120\sb60\sl-240\tx300 {\f4 1}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the printer setup dialog box, choose the Options button. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 In the Options dialog box, select the Print TrueType As Graphics check box }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 3}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Specify any other options you want. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 4}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Choose the OK button. }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li120\sl-240 {\f12 
\par }}