___________________________________________________________________________

1 Getting Started

Before you start using Microsoft(R) Windows, you should be familiar with
your computer and its user's manual. You need to know how to turn the
computer on, which disk drive is drive A, and what keys you press to reset,
or boot, your computer.

___________________________________________________________________________
Setting Up Windows

You will use the Setup program to create a version of Windows tailored to
your computer. If you have a hard disk, Setup will put this version of
Windows in the directory you specify. If you have two floppy-disk drives,
Setup will put Windows on the floppy disks you supply.

To Set Up Windows on a Two-Drive System


________________________________________
Setting up Windows on a two-drive system

To set up Windows on a system with two floppy-disk drives, you will need
the following:


o Two blank, unformatted disks


o Microsoft Windows Setup disk


o Microsoft Windows Build disk


o Microsoft Windows Displays disk


o Microsoft Windows Utilities disk(s)


o Microsoft Windows Fonts disk(s)

To set up Windows, follow these steps:


1 Put the DOS disk in drive A and close the door.


2 Turn on the computer. (If your computer is already on, you can simply
  reboot it.)


3 Enter the date and time if DOS prompts for them.


4 Replace the DOS disk with the Windows Setup disk. Close the door.


5 Type setup and press the ENTER key.


6 Follow the instructions on the screen.

The Setup program creates two disks, the startup disk and the system disk.
You'll use these disks to start and run Windows on your two-drive system.

Setup also copies DOS to your startup disk. You may want to copy other
startup files, such as AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS, to this disk as well.


________________________________________
Making work disks

The Windows Desktop Applications disk contains applications for you to use
with Windows. When you start working in Windows, you may want to have a
work disk for each application that you use (for example, Paint, Notepad,
or Cardfile). A work disk contains a copy of a single application; you can
create and save files for that application on the work disk. This gives you
more room to save files in each application. See Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS(R)
Executive, for information on copying files.

To Set Up Windows on a Hard-Disk System


________________________________________
Setting up Windows on a hard disk

To set up Windows on a hard disk, you will need the following:


o Microsoft Windows Setup disk


o Microsoft Windows Build disk


o Microsoft Windows Displays disk


o Microsoft Windows Utilities disk(s)


o Microsoft Windows Fonts disk(s)


o Microsoft Windows Desktop Applications disk


o Microsoft Windows Write disk

Here's how to set up Windows on a hard-disk system:


1 Turn on the computer.


2 Enter the date and time if DOS prompts for them.


3 Put the Windows Setup disk in drive A and close the door.


4 Type a: and press the ENTER key.


5 Type setup and press the ENTER key.


6 Follow the instructions on the screen.

After running Setup, store your original Windows disks in a safe place; if
Windows is ever damaged, you'll need to copy the disks again.

Note Windows requires approximately 1.5 megabytes of space on your hard
disk. Before you install Windows, use the DOS CHKDSK command to see how
many bytes of memory are available on your hard disk. (It is recommended
that you not use CHKDSK in Windows. See Appendix E, Special Notes on
Running Windows, for more information on CHKDSK).



________________________________________
If you make a mistake

If you make a mistake when you run Setup, such as selecting the wrong
graphics adapter, just start Setup again and repeat the
procedure.

You need to run the Setup program whenever you add new hardware, such as a
mouse card or a new graphics card, to your computer system.

Setting Up Expanded Memory for Windows

If your computer has expanded memory, you may be able to use it to store
and run Windows and Windows applications. You can use you computer's
expanded memory with Windows if you have an expanded memory manager that
supports Windows. For more information about expanded memory and how to use
it with Windows, see the section called Using Expanded Memory with Windows
in Appendix E, Special Notes on Running Windows.

___________________________________________________________________________
Starting Windows

Once you have set up Microsoft Windows on your computer, you can start
learning to use Windows.


________________________________________
Starting Windows on a two-drive system

To start Windows on a two-drive system, follow these steps:


1 Insert your Windows startup disk in drive A.


2 Insert your Windows system disk in drive B.

  (Both disks are created with the Setup program.)


3 Turn on your computer.


4 Enter the date and time if you are prompted.


5 Type win and press the ENTER key.

When you first start Windows on your two-drive system, your screen should
look something like this:

   _________________




   _________________


________________________________________
Starting Windows on a hard disk

To start Windows on a hard-disk system, do the following:


1 Turn your computer on.


2 Enter the date and time if you are prompted.


3 At the system prompt, type cd and a space followed by the pathname of the
  directory where you have set up your Windows files, and press the ENTER
  key.


4 Type win and press the ENTER key.

Your computer starts running Windows. Your screen will look something like
the following:

   _________________























   _________________


________________________________________
Definitions

Here are some terms that will help you learn about and use Windows:


o The highlighted selection shows where you are on the screen. If you have
  a mouse installed, you will also see an arrow pointer.


o The work area displays the contenets of a file, such as an application,
  document, or drawing. The MS-DOS Executive window runs automatically when
  you start Windows.

o The title bar displays the name of the application in that window.


o The menu bar contains the names of the command menus in an application.


o The Control-menu box can be used to display the Control menu. This menu
  is common to all Windows applications.


o The Maximize box can enlarge your window if you have a mouse. If you
  don't have a mouse, you use the Maximize command from the Control menu to
  do the same thing.


o The Minimize box can shrink your window to an icon if you have a mouse.
  If you don't have a mouse, you use the Mini-
  mize command from the Control menu to do the same thing.


o The disk-drive icons represent your disk drives. The icon of the
  currently-selected drive is highlighted.


o Scroll bars may appear in windows that have more information than can be
  displayed in the window. (See Chapter 4, Techniques, for an example of
  scroll bars and an explanation of how to use them.)


You can find information on other Windows terms in Terms at the end of this
manual.

Your screens may look slightly different from those in the illustrations,
because Windows adapts to your computer system when you run the Setup
program.

When you start Windows for the first time, all files in your MS-DOS
Executive window will be part of Microsoft Windows. Do not delete or rename
any of them. The files you need for the following exercises may appear in
slightly different places on your screen than they do in the illustrations.


Note .SH Temporary files

As you run Windows, some applications may create temporary files. These
filenames generally begin with a tilde character (~) and end with the .TMP
extension. Do not delete these files while Windows is running, because an
application may be using them. If you quit Windows using the End Session
command, any temporary files are automatically deleted. (They are also
deleted if you quit Windows by double-clicking the Control-menu box.) If
you quit Windows without using this command (for example, turning off your
computer while Windows is running), some temporary files may remain; you
can safely delete these files.

You can change your DOS AUTOEXEC.BAT file so that these temporary files are
stored in a special directory. See Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS Executive, for
more information on creating a directory for temporary files.


Going On from Here

To learn how to work with Windows using the keyboard, go on to Chapter 2,
Learning Windows. To learn how to work with Windows using the mouse, read
the next section, Using a Mouse with Windows, then go on to Chapter 3,
Learning Windows with the Mouse. If you just want a summary of the basic
techniques and features of Windows, see Chapter 4, Techniques.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using a Mouse with Windows

A mouse is a small pointing device designed to fit comfortably under your
hand. You use the mouse to move icons, expand and shrink windows, and
choose commands. Using the mouse is as easy as pointing and clicking.


________________________________________
Which button to press?

Microsoft Windows can be used with either a single-button or a multiple-
button mouse. If you have a mouse with more than one button, use the
leftmost button. The applications you use may respond to the other buttons,
but Windows uses only the leftmost button. (You can change which button you
use with Windows. See Chapter 7, Using Control Panel.)


________________________________________
Moving the mouse

Moving the mouse across a flat surface moves the pointer, which is the
arrow on the screen.

If you run out of room for the mouse-by going off the edge of the table,
for instance-lift the mouse and put it back down where you have more room.
Lifting the mouse does not move the pointer.

The following definitions will help you begin to use your mouse:



To                 Do this
___________________________________________________________________________

                   Move the mouse until the tip of the pointer rests on
___________________what_you_want_to_point to.
Mouse techniques

Point

Click              Quickly press and release the mouse button.

Drag               Press the mouse button and hold it down while moving the
                   mouse.

Double-click       Click the mouse button twice in rapid succession.

To click an object means to point to that object on the screen (an icon or
a menu name, for example) and click the mouse button.


________________________________________
Mouse icon

In this manual, wherever procedures are given for both the keyboard and the
mouse, the keyboard procedure comes first. The mouse procedure comes
second, and you'll find a mouse icon in the margin next to the beginning of
the mouse procedure.

Now go on to Chapter 3, Learning Windows with the Mouse, for an
introduction to working with Windows using your mouse.



