___________________________________________________________________________

2 Learning Windows

The exercises in this chapter will give you hands-on experience using
Microsoft Windows with a keyboard.

If you are a new user, you will find this chapter especially helpful. The
step-by-step instructions and the illustrations will tell you exactly what
to do. The chapter is divided into three exercises, which you can complete
all at once or one at a time. (If you have a mouse, see Chapter 3, Learning
Windows with the Mouse, for exercises designed for mouse users.)

If you're an experienced user, you'll probably want to read this chapter to
learn the new direct-access technique for selecting menus and choosing
commands with the keyboard.

In this chapter, you will learn and practice the following skills:


o Selecting command menus


o Choosing commands from menus


o Starting a Windows application


o Opening a file in Windows


o Using dialog boxes


o Saving an application document


o Quitting an application


o Moving between windows


o Changing the size of a window


o Moving windows on the screen


o Shrinking a window to an icon


o Ending your Windows session


___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 1: Beginning a Windows Session

In this exercise, you'll learn the basics of how to select menus and choose
commands in any Windows application. Then you'll learn the direct-access
method that you can use with some Windows applications.

First, start Windows. (If you need to review how to get started on your
system, see Chapter 1, Getting Started.)

________________________________________
If you have a two-drive system

On a two-drive system, the files you need for the first exercise are on the
Windows startup disk that you created, and they appear in your MS-DOS
Executive window when you start Windows. Your screen will look something
like this:

   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
If you have a hard-disk system

On a hard-disk system, the files you need for these exercises are on your
hard disk, and they appear in your MS-DOS Executive window when you start
Windows. After you start Windows, your screen will look something like
this:

   _________________

















   _________________

The first window you see is the MS-DOS Executive window. MS-DOS Executive
is the application program that you'll use to start other applications, to
organize your files and windows, and to do things like change directories
and format disks.

All Windows commands are organized in menus on the menu bar. A menu shows
the names of a group of commands. Each application has its own menus, but
one, the Control menu, is common to all applications. The action of picking
a menu is called selecting the menu. In Windows, you select the items that
commands will affect-for example, a filename or an area of the screen-and
you choose the commands that carry out the action.

Selecting the Control Menu

The Control  menu is represented by a box in the upper-left corner of every
window. You use the Control menu's commands to arrange windows on the
screen. The commands allow you to move the windows, change their size, and
close them.

   _________________














   _________________



________________________________________
The Control menu

The first step in selecting a menu is to press the ALT key. ALT is the
menu-access key-it lets Windows know that you are about to select a menu.
Selecting the Control menu is simple-just press the SPACEBAR. Try it now:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the SPACEBAR.

The Control menu appears on your screen. The first command in the list,
Restore, is highlighted, to show that this command is selected.

   _________________















   _________________



________________________________________
Canceling the Control menu

Here's how to cancel the Control menu, or any menu:


1 Press the ESCAPE key.

The menu disappears.

Selecting Menus and Choosing Commands

There are two ways to use the keyboard to select menus on the menu bar and
choose commands from the menus. First you'll be introduced to the basic
method that works with any Windows application. Once you're familiar with
the basic method, you'll learn the direct-access method, which uses the
underlined letters you see in the command and menu names. You don't need to
memorize anything. Chapter 4, Techniques, provides a reference to both
methods.


________________________________________
The basic method

The basic method of selecting menus and choosing commands uses the
DIRECTION keys to move across the Windows menu bar and up and down the
menus.


________________________________________
Moving across the menu bar

The first step is always the same: press the ALT key. Then press the RIGHT
or LEFT keys to select a menu on the menu bar. Try this now:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the RIGHT key to select each menu on the menu bar.


3 Press the LEFT key to select the menus in reverse order.



________________________________________
Moving within a command list

To choose commands, you use the UP and DOWN keys. Try selecting a menu and
using the UP and DOWN keys to move up and down the command list:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the RIGHT or LEFT keys to select a menu on the menu bar.


3 Press the ENTER key to display the menu.


4 Press the UP or DOWN keys to move up or down the command list.


5 Press the ESCAPE key to cancel the menu selection.

To choose a command from a menu, first you use the UP or DOWN keys to
select the command name, then you press the ENTER key.

Try using the View menu's Programs command. The commands on the View menu
let you change the way MS-DOS Executive displays the files in your current
directory. The viewing options are divided into three groups, and the
checkmarks show which option in each group is in effect now. You can change
an option by choosing it from the menu.


________________________________________
Choosing commands

Here's what to do:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the RIGHT key until you select the View menu.


3 Press the ENTER key to display the menu.

     _________________















     _________________



4 Press the DOWN key until the Programs command is selected.

     _________________











     _________________



5 To choose the Programs command, press the ENTER key.

The file listing in your MS-DOS Executive window changes, and only files
with a .EXE, .COM, or .BAT extension are displayed.


If you have a two-drive system, your screen should look something like the
following:

   _________________














   _________________

If you have a hard-disk system, your screen should look something like
this:

   _________________














   _________________

The DIRECTION-key method works with any Windows application.


________________________________________
The direct-access method

Now you'll learn the direct-access method for choosing commands. This
technique works with any Windows application that shows the underlined
letters in menu and command names.


________________________________________
Selecting a menu

With the direct-access method, you can select any of the menus on the menu
bar by using the ALT key with the underlined letter in the menu name. (You
select the Control menu the same way as before.) For example, take a look
at the File menu:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the F key, the underlined letter in the File-menu name.

The File menu drops down from the menu bar.

   _________________
   _________________

Take a look at the other menus listed in the menu bar. Remember to press
the ESCAPE key to clear a menu from your screen.


________________________________________
Using commands in menus

Now try using the commands in the menus. After you have selected a menu,
just press the letter that is underlined in the command's name. To try this
out, choose the All command from the View menu to show all your files once
again in the MS-DOS Executive window:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the underlined letter, V, to select the View menu.

     _________________










     _________________



3 Press the underlined letter, A, to choose the All command.

MS-DOS Executive now shows all your files, not just the program files.

   _________________














   _________________

With the direct-access method, you press the underlined letter in the menu
name to select the menu, then you press the under-
lined letter in the command name to choose the command. Your commands are
started right away. You don't need to press the ENTER key.

Ending Your Windows Session


________________________________________
Quitting Windows
You can end your Windows session now or go on to the next exercise. Ending
your session is as easy as choosing a command:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the S key to select the Special menu.

     _________________






     _________________



3 The End Session command is already selected. You can press E or just
  press the ENTER key to choose it.

A message appears on your screen asking if you want to end the session. The
OK button is already selected.

   _________________














   _________________

If you want to end your Windows session now, here's what to do:


1 Press the ENTER key to choose the OK button.

If you want to go on to the next exercise, do this:


1 Press the ESCAPE key to cancel the command.

In this exercise, you've covered the basics of selecting menus and choosing
commands. In the next exercise, you'll sharpen these skills, and you'll
learn to start a Windows application, open a file, use dialog boxes, and
save a document.

___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 2: Using Notepad

In this exercise, you'll start a Windows application, Notepad, and use it
to edit a sample file included on your Windows Desktop Applications disk.

First start Windows, if you need to. (If you need a refresher, see Chapter
1, Getting Started.)

________________________________________
Two-drive system

If you have a two-drive system, you need to insert another disk and select
drive A to do this exercise:


1 Remove the startup disk from drive A.


2 Insert the Windows Desktop Applications disk in drive A.


3 Press and hold down the CONTROL key.


4 Press the A key.


5 Release the CONTROL key.

The drive A icon is highlighted, which shows that this drive is selected.
MS-DOS Executive lists the files for the Desktop Applications disk.




   _________________















   _________________



________________________________________
Hard-disk system

If you have a hard-disk system, the application file for Notepad (and all
the Windows applications) is on your hard disk and appears in the MS-DOS
Executive window.

Now you're ready to begin. Remember, if you select the wrong menu or decide
you don't want to choose a command, just press the ESCAPE key and start
over again.

Starting Notepad


________________________________________
Starting an
application

You always start applications from the MS-DOS Executive window. To start an
application, you need to select the application file-in this case,
NOTEPAD.EXE. When you first start Windows, the first file listed in the
MS-DOS Executive window is highlighted, which shows that this file is
selected. You use the DIRECTION keys- RIGHT, LEFT, DOWN, and UP-to select
the filename you want. Try starting Notepad:


1 Press the DIRECTION keys until the filename NOTEPAD.EXE is selected.

     _________________














     _________________



2 Press the ENTER key.

Notepad appears in front of the MS-DOS Executive window.

   _________________














   _________________


Opening a File


________________________________________
Opening files

To open files for editing with Notepad, you choose the Open command from
the File menu:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press F, the underlined letter in File, to select the File menu.


3 Press the underlined letter, O, to choose the Open command.


________________________________________
The Open dialog box

The Open command's dialog box is displayed on your screen. Windows uses
dialog boxes to give you messages and to ask you for any additional
information-in this case, a filename-needed to carry out a command. You can
type the name of the file you want to open in the text box, or you can
select the filename from the list box.

The list box contains a list of all the Notepad files (files with a .TXT
extension). It also shows the disk drives, the directory one level up from
your current directory (symbolized by [..]), and any subdirectories
(directories in your current directory). You use the Open button or the
Cancel button to complete the Open command.

   _________________




















   _________________

As with menus and commands, there are two ways to move and select in dialog
boxes: the basic keyboard method (which works with any Windows application)
and the direct-access method (which works with applications that have
underlined letters in the names of the items in the dialog box).


________________________________________
If you make a mistake

If you make a mistake while completing the information in a dialog box,
press the ESCAPE key, just as you would to cancel a menu. The ESCAPE key
cancels the dialog box and you can start over again.


________________________________________
Using the basic method

First, experiment with using the basic keyboard method:


1 Press the TAB key several times to move from area to area
  in the dialog box.

Note that the area you select with the TAB key is always marked -usually
with a dotted box. The text box is marked by a flashing vertical line. This
is the insertion point, and it shows you where you can begin typing text.
The text box shows the filename extension for a Notepad file, .TXT.


________________________________________
Using the direct-access method

Now try the direct-access method:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key.


2 Press F, the underlined letter in the list-box title.

     _________________












     _________________



3 Press N, the underlined letter in the text-box title.


4 Release the ALT key.

As you press the underlined letters, each area in turn is selected. The
direct-access method works with applications that show underlined letters
in names of the items in the dialog box.

You can use either method to move in dialog boxes. The examples in this
exercise use the direct-access method, but you can also use the TAB key.
Don't worry about learning exact key sequences now. You can refer to
Chapter 4, Techniques, if you need a review later.


________________________________________
Opening a sample file

Now use the File menu's Open dialog box to open a sample file, DOTHIS.TXT:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key.


2 Press F to move to the list box, which shows the files in your directory.


3 Release the ALT key.


4 Press the DOWN key to select DOTHIS.TXT. When you select a filename in
  the list box, the filename is highlighted, and it also appears in the
  text box.

     _________________










     _________________



5 Press and hold down the ALT key.


6 Press O, to choose the Open button.


7 Release the ALT key.

The sample text file, DOTHIS.TXT, appears in the Notepad window, and you're
ready to edit it with Notepad.

   _________________
















   _________________


Working in a File


________________________________________
Inserting text

The insertion point shows where you can start working in the file. When you
start Notepad, the insertion point is at the top of the file. To move the
insertion point, use the DIRECTION keys. You can move to any point in the
file and start typing.

For example, move the insertion point to the third line in the file and add
another item to your list:


1 Press the DOWN key twice to move the insertion point to the line
  beginning Phone dentist.


2
  Type your new item, Pay dentist.

     _________________














     _________________



3 Use the SPACEBAR to move the insertion point over to the right-hand
  column, and give the new item a priority of D.


4 Press the ENTER key to move the line beginning Phone dentist to the next
  line.


   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
Selecting text to delete

Now delete some of the tasks on your list. To do this, you need to select
the text that you want your command to affect. Try selecting and deleting
the next four items on your list:


1 Use the DIRECTION keys to move the insertion point to the line beginning
  Clean garage.


2 Press and hold down the SHIFT key.


3 Use the DIRECTION keys to move the insertion point up and down and to the
  right and left.

  As you move the insertion point, the selected text is highlighted.

4 After you have selected all the text you want to delete, release the
  SHIFT key.

     _________________














     _________________




________________________________________
If you make a mistake

If you make a mistake in selecting the right text, it's easy to correct:


1 After you release the SHIFT key, press any DIRECTION key.

The text is no longer selected.



________________________________________
Deleting selected text

Once you have selected the lines, delete them by choosing the Edit menu's
Cut command:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the underlined letter, E, to select the Edit menu.

     _________________














     _________________



3 Press the underlined letter, T, to choose the Cut command.

The selected lines are deleted from your file.



________________________________________
Saving your changes

After you complete your changes to the Notepad file, you need to save your
edited document. Notepad has two commands for saving files: Save and Save
As. The Save command saves your edited document under the existing
filename. The Save As command saves your version under a new name that you
supply, while the original version remains unchanged. (Windows uses the DOS
file-naming convention that limits filenames to eight characters.)


________________________________________
Using the Save As command

In this exercise, use the Save As command from the File menu:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press F to select the File menu.

     _________________








     _________________



3 To choose the Save As command, press the underlined letter, A.

  A dialog box appears. The current name of the file, DOTHIS.TXT, is in the
  text box.


4 Type the new filename, mylist.txt, in the text box.

     _________________




     _________________



5 Press the ENTER key.

Windows saves the revised file under the new name. The original DOTHIS.TXT
remains intact.




________________________________________
Quitting an
application

After you're finished working with an application, you can use the Exit
command to quit the application and return to MS-DOS Executive. Use this
command to quit Notepad:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press F to select the File menu.


3 Press X, the underlined letter, to choose the Exit command.

The Notepad window closes and you can once again see the entire MS-DOS
Executive window.


In this exercise, you learned to start a Windows application, Note-
pad, and you used it to edit and save a file. You also learned how to use a
dialog box and how to quit an application, and you re-
viewed selecting menus and choosing commands.

You can end your Windows session now or go on to the final exercise, in
which you'll learn to move windows and change their size.

___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 3: Using Clock

In this exercise, you'll start another Windows application, Clock, and
learn to arrange and manipulate the windows on your screen.

If you quit Windows at the end of the last exercise, start Windows again.


________________________________________
Two-drive system

If you have a two-drive system, insert the Desktop Applications disk in
drive A, then press CONTROL+A to select drive A. (In this manual, a plus
sign (+) used with two or more keynames indicates a key combination: you
should press and hold down the first key, then press the next key or keys.
After pressing all the keys, release the first key.)


________________________________________
Hard-disk system

If you have a hard-disk system, the file for Clock, CLOCK.EXE, is on your
hard disk and appears in your Windows directory in the MS-DOS Executive
window.


________________________________________
Starting Clock

First, start Clock:


1 Use the DOWN key to select CLOCK.EXE in the MS-DOS Executive window.

     _________________
     _________________



2 Press the ENTER key.

Clock appears on your screen.

   _________________


















   _________________

Notice that the title bar of Clock is darkened. This shows that Clock is
the active window-the window that your commands will affect. The title bar
of the MS-DOS Executive window is gray, showing that it is no longer
active. When you have more than one window open, you need to select one of
them as your active window.

Changing Active Windows


________________________________________
Selecting a window

Try changing your active window to MS-DOS Executive:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE.


   _________________
















   _________________

MS-DOS Executive appears in front of Clock, and its title bar is darkened.
Each time you press ALT+ESCAPE, the next open window is brought to the
front. If you have several applications started, pressing ALT+ESCAPE brings
windows to the front in the order that they were started in. The window
that was active goes to the back.

If you have several windows sharing the screen, check the title bar to see
which one is dark. That's your active window.

Try switching back and forth several times between Clock and MS-DOS
Executive.

Changing a Window's Size

You can change the size of a window in several ways. First, bring MS-DOS
Executive to the front if it's not your active window:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE.

MS-DOS Executive appears in front of Clock, and its title bar is darkened.

________________________________________
Using the Size command

One way to change the size of a window is by using the Size command on the
Control menu. Try this:


1 Press the ALT key and then the SPACEBAR.


2 Press S to choose the Size command.

The MS-DOS Executive borders darken and a four-headed arrow appears in the
middle of the window.

   _________________

















   _________________



________________________________________
Moving a border

Now use the DIRECTION keys to change the size of your window. The first
DIRECTION key you press selects the border you will move. The DIRECTION
keys move the selected border up and down, to the right or to the left. Try
moving the right border of MS-DOS Executive:


1 Select the right border by pressing the RIGHT key.


2 Make the window narrower by pressing the LEFT key a few times.

     _________________
















     _________________



3 Now press the DOWN key. The arrow pointer moves to the lower-right
  corner.

     _________________
















     _________________

  You can now move the corner up and down or to the right and to the left.
  (If, after you select a border, you decide that you don't want to change
  your window size, it's easy to cancel the Size command by pressing the
  ESCAPE key.)


4 Use the UP key to move the corner up.


5 When you finish moving the borders, press the ENTER key to choose the new
  size.

Your window assumes the new size.


Experiment with the Size command to see how you can use it to adjust the
size of your window.

Shrinking a Window to an Icon


________________________________________
Using the Minimize command

Another way you can change the size of a window is by using the Minimize
command. This command shrinks a window and turns it into an icon. The
application is still running but it doesn't take up as much space on the
screen. Try using the Minimize command on Clock:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE to select Clock as your active window.


2 Press ALT and then the SPACEBAR to select Clock's Control menu.


3 Press N, the underlined letter in the Minimize command.

Clock becomes an icon in the lower-left corner of your screen.

   _________________
















   _________________

Windows puts applications in the lower portion of the screen when they have
been shrunk to icons. Clock continues to run, and the time is still
visible.


________________________________________
Selecting an icon

You can select icons the same way you select windows, and you can display
the icons' menus as well. MS-DOS Executive is your active window now.
Select Clock:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE.

The icon's title appears.

   _________________






   _________________


Moving a Window or an Icon

Another command in the Control menu, Move, lets you move windows or icons
on your screen.


________________________________________
Using the Move command

Try using the Move command to move the Clock icon:


1 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR. (In this manual, a
  keyname followed by a comma and another keyname indicates a key sequence:
  you should press and release the first key, then press and release the
  second key.)

     _________________
















     _________________



2 Choose the Move command by pressing the underlined letter, M.


3 Use the DIRECTION keys to move the icon on your screen. (If, after you
  move the icon, you decide that you don't want it moved after all, it's
  easy to cancel the Move command by pressing the ESCAPE key.)

  The icon becomes an empty rectangle while you move it.

     _________________















     _________________



4 When you have positioned the icon where you want it, press the ENTER key.

  The title of the icon appears.


   _________________
















   _________________





Enlarging a Window


________________________________________
Using the Maximize command

If you want to work in one window, you can use the Maximize command to
enlarge a window so that it fills the entire screen.

Try selecting the MS-DOS Executive's Control menu and choosing the Maximize
command:


1 If you need to, press ALT+ESCAPE to select MS-DOS Executive as your
  active window.


2 Press ALT, SPACEBAR to display the Control menu.


3 Press X, the underlined letter, to choose the Maximize command.

MS-DOS Executive expands to take up your entire screen.

   _________________









   _________________




Take a look at the Control menu:


1 Press ALT, SPACEBAR.


   _________________






   _________________

The Maximize command is grayed, showing that you can't use it now. The
Restore command is no longer grayed. This command lets you restore a window
to its previous size and location on the screen.

Restoring a Window


________________________________________
Using the Restore command

Use the Restore command to reduce MS-DOS Executive to its previous size:


1 Press R or the ENTER key to choose the Restore command.

MS-DOS Executive shrinks to the size you made it when you used the Size
command.

   _________________
















   _________________



________________________________________
Restoring the Clock window

Now use the Restore command to restore the Clock window:


1
  Select the Clock icon by pressing ALT+ESCAPE.


2 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.


3 Press R or the ENTER key to choose the Restore command.

Clock is restored to its previous size.

   _________________
















   _________________





________________________________________
Ending your session

Now choose the End Session command from the Special menu, to end your
Windows session:


1 Select the MS-DOS Executive window as your active window by pressing
  ALT+ESCAPE.


2 Press ALT and then S to select the Special menu.

     _________________
















     _________________


3 The End Session command is selected because it is listed first, so press
  E or the ENTER key to choose it.

A dialog box appears, warning you that this will end your Windows session.

   _________________
















   _________________


The OK button is already selected. To end your session, do the following:


1 Press the ENTER key to choose OK.

If you want to continue working in Windows, do the following:


1 Press the ESCAPE key.

In this exercise, you reviewed selecting menus, choosing commands, and
starting applications. You learned how to select the active window when you
have more than one application started. You used the Move command. You also
changed the size of windows, using four different commands: Size, Minimize,
Maximize, and Restore.

You've mastered all the basic skills you need in order to use Windows with
the keyboard. Go ahead and start working with Windows, or read further in
this manual. The next chapter repeats these exercises for users who have a
mouse. Chapter 4, Techniques, reviews the things you've learned here, and
provides more advanced techniques and some shortcut commands for
accomplishing common tasks.



















