___________________________________________________________________________

3 Learning Windows
  with the Mouse

These exercises will give you hands-on experience using Microsoft Windows
with a mouse. Using a mouse makes many tasks faster and easier to learn.

If you are a new user, you will find this chapter especially helpful. The
step-by-step instructions and the illustrations will tell you exactly what
to do.

If you have a mouse installed, you can still use the keyboard techniques.
See Chapter 2, Learning Windows, for more information on working from the
keyboard.

In this chapter, you will learn and practice the following skills:


o Using the mouse


o Selecting command menus


o Choosing commands from menus


o Starting a Windows application


o Opening a file in Windows


o Using dialog boxes


o Saving an application document


o Quitting an application


o Moving between windows


o Changing the size of a window


o Moving windows on the screen


o Shrinking a window to an icon


o Ending your Windows session


___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 1: Beginning a Windows Session

In this exercise, you'll learn the basics of how to select menus and choose
commands in any Windows application.

First, start Windows. (If you need to review how to get started on your
system or how to use your mouse, see Chapter 1, Getting Started.)

________________________________________
If you have a two-drive system

On a two-drive system, the files you need for the first exercise are on the
Windows startup disk that you created, and they appear in your MS-DOS
Executive window when you start Windows. Your screen will look something
like this:

   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
If you have a hard-disk system

On a hard-disk system, the files you need for these exercises are on your
hard disk, and they appear in your MS-DOS Executive window when you start
Windows. After you start Windows, your screen will look something like
this:

   _________________














   _________________


The first window you see is the MS-DOS Executive window. MS-DOS Executive
is the application program that you'll use to start other applications, to
organize your files and windows, and to do things like change directories
and format disks.

All Windows commands are organized in menus on the menu bar. A menu shows
the names of a group of commands. Each application has it own menus, but
one, the Control menu, is common to all applications. The act of picking a
menu is called selecting the menu. In Windows, you select the items that a
command will affect-for example, a filename or an area of the screen- and
you choose the commands that carry out the action.

Selecting the Control Menu

The Control menu is represented by a box in the upper-left corner of every
window. You use the Control menu's commands to arrange windows on the
screen. The commands allow you to move the windows, change their size, and
close them.

   _________________

















   _________________



________________________________________
The Control menu

Here's how to select the Control menu:


1 Point to the Control-menu box.


2 Click the menu box.

The Control menu appears on your screen. The first command in the list,
Restore, is highlighted, to show that this command is selected.

   _________________
















   _________________



________________________________________
Canceling the Control menu

Try canceling the Control-menu display:


1 Point to a blank part of the screen outside the menu.


2 Click the mouse button.

The Control menu disappears. You can also cancel menu displays by pressing
the ESCAPE key.




Selecting Menus and Choosing Commands



________________________________________
Selecting menus

You use the same technique to select menus on the menu bar. Try selecting
the View menu:


1 Point to the View menu on the menu bar. (Just point to any part of the
  word View.)


2 Click the menu name.


   _________________
















   _________________

The View menu lets you choose how MS-DOS Executive displays your current
directory. Try selecting the other menus on the menu bar. To make a menu
disappear, click anywhere outside the menu.


________________________________________
Choosing commands

Choosing commands from menus is simple. Try choosing the Programs command
from the View menu:


1 Point to the Programs command.


2 Click the command name.

The file listing in your MS-DOS Executive window changes, and only files
with a .EXE, .COM, or .BAT extension are displayed.



If you have a two-drive system, your screen should look something like the
following:

   _________________
















   _________________

If you have a hard-disk system, your MS-DOS Executive window should look
something like this:

   _________________














   _________________

Experiment by choosing some of the other commands in the View menu.

Ending Your Windows Session



________________________________________
Quitting Windows

You can end your Windows session now or go on to the next exercise. Ending
your session is as easy as choosing a command:


1 Point to the Special menu.


2
  Click the menu name.

     _________________














     _________________



3 Point to the End Session command.


4 Click the command name.

A message appears on your screen asking if you want to end the session.

   _________________














   _________________

If you want to end your Windows session, here's what to do:


1 Point to the OK button.


2 Click the button.

If you want to go on to the next exercise, do this:


1 Point to the Cancel button.


2 Click the button.

In this exercise, you've covered the basics of selecting menus and choosing
commands with the mouse. In the next exercise, you'll sharpen these skills,
and you'll learn to start a Windows application, open a file, use dialog
boxes, and save a document.

___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 2: Using Notepad

In this exercise, you'll start a Windows application, Notepad, and use it
to edit a sample file included on your Windows Desktop Applications disk.

First start Windows, if you need to. (If you need a refresher, see Chapter
1, Getting Started.)


________________________________________
Two-drive system

If you have a two-drive system, you need to insert another disk
to do this exercise:


1 Remove the startup disk from drive A.


2 Insert the Windows Desktop Applications disk in drive A.


3 Click the drive A icon.

MS-DOS Executive displays the directory listing for the Desktop
Applications disk in drive A. The drive A icon is highlighted, showing that
it is selected. Your screen should look like this:




   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
Hard-disk system

If you have a hard-disk system, the application file for Notepad (and all
the Windows applications) is on your hard disk and appears in the MS-DOS
Executive window. The drive C icon is highlighted, showing that it is
selected. If you quit Windows at the end of the last lesson, your screen
should look something like the following:

   _________________






   _________________


If you did not quit Windows at the end of the last lesson, then the
directory listing in your MS-DOS Executive window will still show only the
program files. You can use the View menu's All command to display the full
directory list.

Now you're ready to begin. Remember, if you select the wrong menu or decide
you don't want to choose a command, just point to the screen area outside
the menu and click the mouse button. The menu disappears and you can start
over again.

Starting Notepad



________________________________________
Starting an application

You always start applications from the MS-DOS Executive window. You can use
the mouse to start applications. Start Notepad now:


1 Double-click the application filename, NOTEPAD.EXE.

     _________________

















     _________________


Notepad appears in front of the MS-DOS Executive window.

   _________________














   _________________

Opening a File



________________________________________
Opening files

To open files for editing, you select the File menu and choose the Open
command:


1 Click the File menu.


2 Click the Open command.


________________________________________
The Open dialog box

The Open command's dialog box is displayed on your screen. Windows uses
dialog boxes to send you messages and to ask you for additional
information-in this case, a filename-needed to carry out a command. You can
use your mouse to supply the information to Windows.

   _________________




















   _________________

The list box contains a list of all the Notepad files (files with a .TXT
extension). It also shows the disk drives, the directory one level up from
your current directory (symbolized by [..]), and any subdirectories
(directories in your current directory). You use the Open button or the
Cancel button to complete the Open command.


________________________________________
Opening a sample file

Here's how to select the file you want to open from the dialog box:


1 Click the filename DOTHIS.TXT in the list box.

  The filename is highlighted, to show that it's selected, and it is
  surrounded by a dotted box, to show that the list box itself is selected.
  DOTHIS.TXT now appears in the Open File Name text box, too.

     _________________
















     _________________



2 Click the Open button.

The sample text file, DOTHIS.TXT, appears in the Notepad
window, and you're ready to edit it with Notepad.

   _________________















   _________________


Working in a File


________________________________________
Inserting text

Move your pointer around in the Notepad screen. Notice that when the mouse
pointer is in the work area, it changes from an arrow to an I-beam. The
flashing vertical line at the top of the file is the insertion point, the
point at which new text can be typed. You can move the insertion point to
any place in the file with your mouse.

For example, move the insertion point to the third line in the file and add
another item to your list:


1 Click the line beginning Phone dentist.


2
  Type your new item, Pay dentist.

     _________________














     _________________



3 Use the SPACEBAR to move the insertion point over to the right-hand
  column, and give the new item a priority of D.


4 Press the ENTER key to move the line Phone dentist to the next line.


   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
Selecting text to delete

Now delete some of the tasks on your list. To do this, you need to select
the text that you want your command to affect. Try selecting and deleting
the next four items on your list:


1 Point to the line beginning Phone dentist.


2 Drag the I-beam pointer down five lines.


3 Release the mouse button.

As you drag the I-beam pointer, the selected text is highlighted.

   _________________

   _________________



________________________________________
If you make a mistake

If you make a mistake, it's easy to correct:


1 Click the mouse button.

The text is no longer selected.




________________________________________
Deleting selected text

Once you have selected the lines, delete them by choosing the Edit menu's
Cut command:


1 Click the Edit menu.

     _________________














     _________________



2 Click the Cut command.

The lines you selected are deleted from your file.



________________________________________
Saving your changes

The next step is to save the changes you made with Notepad. Notepad has two
commands to save documents: Save and Save As. The Save command saves the
edited version of your document under the existing filename. The Save As
command saves your edited version under a new filename, while the original
version remains unchanged. (Windows uses the DOS file-naming convention
that limits filenames to eight characters.)


________________________________________
Using the Save As command

In this exercise, use the Save As command from the File menu:


1 Click the File menu.

     _________________








     _________________



2 Click the Save As command.

  A dialog box appears. The current name of the file, DOTHIS.TXT, is in the
  text box.


3 Type the new filename, mylist.txt, in the text box.

     _________________




     _________________



4 Click the OK button.

Windows saves the revised file under the new name. The original DOTHIS.TXT
remains intact.




________________________________________
Quitting an
application

After you're finished working with an application, you can use the Exit
command to quit the application and return to MS-DOS Executive. Use this
command to quit Notepad:


1 Click the File menu.

     _________________












     _________________



2 Click the Exit command.

The Notepad window closes and you can once again see the entire MS-DOS
Executive window.



In this exercise, you learned to start a Windows application, Notepad, and
you used it to edit and save a file. You also learned how to use a dialog
box and how to quit an application, and you reviewed selecting menus and
choosing commands.

You can end your Windows session now or go on to the final exercise, in
which you'll learn to move windows and change their size.

___________________________________________________________________________
Exercise 3: Using Clock

In this exercise, you'll start another Windows application, Clock, and
learn to arrange and manipulate windows on your screen.

If you quit Windows at the end of the last exercise, start Windows again.


________________________________________
Two-drive system

If you have a two-drive system, insert the Desktop Applications disk in
drive A. To select drive A, click the drive A icon.


________________________________________
Hard-disk system

If you have a hard-disk system, the file for Clock, CLOCK.EXE, appears in
your Windows directory in the MS-DOS Executive window.


________________________________________
Starting Clock

The first step is to start Clock:


1 Double-click the application filename for Clock, CLOCK.EXE.

Clock appears on your screen.

   _________________













   _________________

Notice that the title bar is darkened. This shows that Clock is the active
window-the window that your commands will affect. The title bar of the MS-
DOS Executive window is gray, showing that the window is no longer active.
When you have more than one window open, you need to select one of them as
your active window.

Changing the Active Window


________________________________________
Selecting a window

Try changing your active window to MS-DOS Executive:


1 Click a blank area in the MS-DOS Executive window.


   _________________
















   _________________

MS-DOS Executive appears in front of Clock, and its title bar is darkened.

Changing a Window's Size

If you want to select a window with the mouse, part of the window must be
visible on the screen. You can make Clock visible by moving the borders of
the MS-DOS Executive window. Moving the borders with the mouse is also an
easy way to change a window's size.


________________________________________
Moving a window's borders

To move the window's borders and select Clock, do this:


1 Point to the left border of the window. The pointer becomes a two-headed
  arrow.


2 Drag the border to the right until Clock is revealed.


3 Release the mouse button.

     _________________

     _________________



4 Click the Clock window.

Clock appears in front of MS-DOS Executive, and its title bar is darkened.

   _________________
















   _________________



________________________________________
Another way to select a window

An alternative way to select the active window is to use the keyboard. Try
this technique to select MS-DOS Executive:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key.


2 Press the ESCAPE key.


3 Release the ALT key.

MS-DOS Executive appears in front of Clock.

   _________________
















   _________________

If your windows overlap, the one in front is the active window. If you have
several windows sharing the screen, check the title bar to see which one is
dark. That's your active window.


________________________________________
Moving the corners of a window

You can change the size of a window in several ways. One way is to drag the
window borders, as you did with the MS-DOS Exec-
utive window. You can also move the corners of the window. Try making MS-
DOS Executive smaller by moving the lower-left corner:


1 Point to the lower-left corner. The mouse pointer becomes a two-headed
  arrow.


2 Drag the corner up and to the right.

     _________________
















     _________________



3 Release the mouse button.

Your window assumes the new size.




Shrinking a Window to an Icon


________________________________________
Using the Minimize box

Another way you can change the size of a window is by using the Minimize
box to shrink the window and turn it into an icon. The application is still
running but it doesn't take up as much space on the screen. Try using
Clock's Minimize box:


1 Select Clock with the mouse (click anywhere inside the Clock window).


2 Click the Minimize box.

     _________________

     _________________


Clock becomes an icon.

   _________________
















   _________________

Windows puts applications in the lower portion of the screen when they are
shrunk to icons. Clock continues to run, and the time is still visible.

Moving a Window or an Icon


________________________________________
Moving icons

You can move icons and windows to any part of the screen. Here's how to
move the Clock icon:


1 Point to the Clock icon.


2 Drag the icon up the left side of the screen. The icon becomes an empty
  rectangle when you drag it.

     _________________
















     _________________



3 Release the mouse button.

  The title bar appears underneath the Clock icon, showing that the icon is
  selected.


   _________________
















   _________________





________________________________________
Moving windows

You move windows in a different way, by pointing to the title bar and
dragging it. Move the MS-DOS Executive window down the screen:


1 Point to the title bar.

     _________________
















     _________________



2 Drag the title bar down the screen.

  You can see the new location of the window outlined as you move.


3 Release the mouse button.

MS-DOS Executive is displayed in its new location.

   _________________
   _________________


Enlarging a Window



________________________________________
Using the Maximize box

If you want to work in one window, you can use the Maximize box to expand a
window to fill the entire screen. The Maximize box is in the upper-right
corner of a window, and you use it in much the same way you use the
Minimize box. (Some applications with windows of a fixed size have no
Maximize box.) Try using the Maximize box in the MS-DOS Executive window:


1 Click the Maximize box.

     _________________

















     _________________



MS-DOS Executive enlarges to fill your entire screen. The Maxi-
mize box is gone and is replaced by a box with an up and a down arrow. This
is the Restore box.

   _________________


















   _________________


Restoring a Window


________________________________________
Using the Restore box

The Restore box restores your window to its previous size and location. You
can restore a window after you've enlarged it to its maximum size or after
you've shrunk it to an icon. The procedure is slightly different for each
case.


________________________________________
Restoring a window

First, use the Restore box in MS-DOS Executive:


1 Click the Restore box.

MS-DOS Executive is restored to its previous size and location on the
screen.

   _________________
















   _________________



________________________________________
Restoring an icon

To restore an icon, you double-click it. Try this with the Clock icon:


1 Double-click the Clock icon.

Clock is restored to its original size and location.

   _________________










   _________________


________________________________________
Ending your session

Now choose the End Session command from the Special menu, to end your
Windows session:


1 Click the MS-DOS Executive window.


2 Click the Special menu.

     _________________






     _________________



3 Click the End Session command.

  A dialog box appears warning you that this will end your Windows session.

     _________________
















     _________________



4 Click the OK button to end your Windows session, or click the Cancel
  button if you want to continue working in Windows.




In this exercise, you reviewed selecting menus, choosing commands, and
starting and closing applications. You learned how to select the active
window when you have more than one window open and to move windows and
icons. You also practiced different ways of changing the size of windows:
moving borders, moving corners, and using the boxes on the window's title
bar.

You've mastered all the basic skills you need in order to use
Windows with a mouse. Go ahead and start working with Windows, or read
further in this manual. Chapter 4, Techniques, reviews the things you've
learned here, and provides more advanced techniques and some shortcuts for
accomplishing common tasks.































































