___________________________________________________________________________

4 Techniques

This chapter describes basic techniques for working with Microsoft Windows
and gives information about some Windows features.

Applications designed for Windows may have additional or alternate ways of
doing some tasks. Some Windows applications have shortcuts for commands,
options, and procedures. See your application's manual for details.

If you have a mouse, you can mix mouse and keyboard techniques to find the
easiest way to perform a task.

___________________________________________________________________________
Starting Windows


________________________________________
If you have a two-drive system

To start Windows, you use the WIN command. If you have a two-drive system,
do the following:


1 Insert your Windows startup disk in drive A.


2 Insert your Windows system disk in drive B.


3 Turn on your computer.


4 Type the date and time if you are prompted to.


5 Type win and press the ENTER key.


________________________________________
If you have a hard-disk system

If your computer is a hard-disk system, do the following:


1 Turn on your computer.


2 Type the date and time if you are prompted to.


3 Type cd and a space, followed by the pathname of the directory that your
  Windows files are in. (The Setup program created a directory named
  WINDOWS unless you specified another directory.)


4 Type win and press the ENTER key.

When you start Windows, MS-DOS Executive is displayed on your screen.

___________________________________________________________________________
Starting an Application

Usually you start an application program from the MS-DOS Executive window.
(If you have a two-drive system, you should insert your application disk in
drive A.)


________________________________________
Starting applications

To start an application with the keyboard, follow these steps:


1 Use the DIRECTION keys to move to the filename in the MS-DOS Executive
  window. (The filename will probably have a .EXE or .COM extension.)


2 Press the ENTER key.

The application window appears on your screen.




________________________________________

To start an application with a mouse, do the following:


1 Double-click the filename of the application you want to run. (This
  filename usually has a .EXE or .COM extension.)

The application window appears on your screen.

Note Windows uses the leftmost mouse button. You can switch this function
to the right button by using Control Panel. See Chap-
ter 7, Using Control Panel, for instructions.

See Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS Executive, for information on the different
ways you can run applications.

___________________________________________________________________________
Selecting

In Windows, you always have to select what your next action is going to
affect. You select a window and then work in it, you select a command and
then execute it, you select an area within a file and then do something to
it. The way you select varies, de-
pending on what you're doing and in what context, and the way Windows shows
that something is selected also varies. But it's useful to remember the
basic concept: first you select, then you do something to what you've
selected.

Windows will always show you in some way what you've selected. For example,
if you've selected a filename in MS-DOS Executive, the filename will appear
highlighted. If you've selected an icon, the icon's Control menu will
appear and its title bar will be visible. If you've selected a window, the
window's title bar will be darkened.

___________________________________________________________________________
Selecting the Active Window or Icon

If you have started more than one application, you need to select the one
that you want your commands to affect. The selected application's window is
your active window (or icon-you select windows and icons the same way). You
can tell which window is active: its title bar is darkened and it is in
front of any other windows you have opened.

   _________________


   _________________


If you select an icon rather than a window, the icon's Control menu appears
and its title bar is visible.

   _________________


















   _________________


You can select a window or icon using either the keyboard or the mouse.


________________________________________
Selecting windows or icons

To select your next active window or icon with the keyboard, just do this:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE. (In this manual, a plus sign (+) used with two or more
  keynames indicates a key combination: you should press and hold down the
  first key, then press the next key or keys. After pressing all the keys,
  release the first key.)

Repeat this step until the window or icon you want appears in front.
Windows and icons are selected in the order in which you started them.


You can use the SHIFT key to select windows in reverse:


1 Press ALT+SHIFT+ESCAPE.



________________________________________

Here's how to select windows or icons with the mouse:


1 Click anywhere within the window or icon.

If the window you want to select isn't visible, you can either use the
keyboard method, or move or size the other windows until the window you
want becomes visible.

Previewing Windows or Icons

You can also preview the windows and icons you've started, without
selecting them. The frame and title bar of each application appear, but you
don't have to wait for the entire window to appear. This is useful if you
have some windows or icons hidden by other windows or icons, and you want
to flip through them quickly without taking the time to select each one in
turn.


________________________________________
Previewing

To preview the windows and icons on your screen, do this:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key.


2 Press the TAB key to preview each active window or icon in order.


3 When you reach the window or icon you want to select, release ALT.

The rest of your active window fills in, and the window appears in front of
the other windows. If it's an icon that you selected, the icon is restored
to its previous size and position as a window. When you preview windows and
icons, they appear in the order in which they were started. If you want to
preview them in reverse order, do the same thing but use the SHIFT key as
well:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key and the SHIFT key.


2 Press the TAB key to preview each window and icon.


3 When you find the window or icon you want to select, release ALT and
  SHIFT.


___________________________________________________________________________
Choosing Commands from Menus

Windows commands are organized into menus. Each application has its own
menus, and one-the Control menu-is common to all applications. The Control
menu is symbolized by a box at the upper-left corner of each window; all
the other menus are repre-
sented by their names in the menu bar, which runs across the top of each
window underneath its title bar.

In Windows, you select a menu, then choose a command from that menu.
Choosing the command carries out the action. (Some applications use a
shortcut method of referring to commands that reflects this process: the
File Open command, for instance, refers to the Open command from the File
menu.)

   _________________









   _________________


Choosing a Command

If you're using the keyboard, you have two ways to choose commands from
menus: the basic method, which works for all Windows applications, and the
direct-access method.


________________________________________
Basic method

The basic method uses the DIRECTION keys. To choose a command using the
DIRECTION keys, do this:


1 Press the ALT key. (You can use the F10 key instead of the ALT key.)


2 Use the LEFT or RIGHT keys to select a menu name on the menu bar.


3 Press the ENTER key to display the menu.


4 Use the UP or DOWN keys to select the command you want.


5 Press ENTER to choose the command.


________________________________________
Direct-access method

If your application shows underlined letters in command and menu names, you
can use the direct-access method. To choose
a command using the direct-access method, follow these steps:


1 Press the ALT key.


2 Press the underlined letter in the menu name.

     _________________
















     _________________



3
  Press the underlined letter in the command name.


Note If more than one command or menu share the same underlined letter,
Windows will select the first menu or command listed. Press the underlined
letter again to select the next menu or command. To display the menu or
choose the command, press the ENTER key.


________________________________________
Canceling a menu

If you decide after you've selected the menu that you don't want to choose
a command, you can cancel the menu:


1 Press ESCAPE.


________________________________________
Choosing a command

If you're using the mouse, it's easy to choose a command from a menu:


1 Click the menu name on the menu bar.


2 Click the command name.


________________________________________
Canceling a menu

If you decide after you've selected the menu that you don't want to choose
a command, you can cancel the menu:


1 Click anywhere outside the menu.

Clicking in a blank area of the window is best, so that you don't select
something else in the window without meaning to.



________________________________________
Checked options

Some menus show commands that you choose in order to set options.
Checkmarks in the menu indicate which options are active.

   _________________












   _________________


The Control Menu

In addition to the menus for each application, the Control menu appears in
all windows, and you select it a little differently. You use its commands
to manipulate windows-for example, to change their size or move them on the
screen. (Some dialog boxes also have Control menus.)

Although you choose commands from the Control menu as you would from any
other, you select the Control menu in a different way.

   _________________















   _________________


________________________________________
Using the Control menu

To select the Control menu from the keyboard, do this:


1 Press ALT, SPACEBAR. (In this manual, a keyname followed by a comma and
  another keyname indicates a key sequence: you should press the first key,
  then press the second key.)

  You can use SHIFT+ESCAPE instead of ALT, SPACEBAR.

You can then use either the basic method or the direct-access method to
choose the command you want.


________________________________________

To select the Control menu with the mouse, do this:


1 In a window, click the Control-menu box, in the upper-left corner of the
  window; in an icon, just click the icon.

You can then simply click the name of the command you want to choose, as
you would on any other menu.

If you choose the Size or Move commands with the mouse, you have to
complete the command by moving or sizing the window.

Inactive Commands


________________________________________
Inactive commands

When you see a command name grayed on the menu, it means that the command
is inactive and you can't currently use it.

   _________________















   _________________


You may have to select something before you can use the command, or it may
be that the command cannot be used with your application-for example, the
Calculator window has a fixed size, so you can't use the Maximize or Size
commands on the Control menu.

Shortcut Keys


________________________________________
Shortcut keys

Some menus have shortcut keys, usually listed to the right of the command
name. Often these keys are combinations of the ALT or CONTROL keys and a
function key. You use these keys to choose a command without selecting the
command's menu. The following list shows the shortcut keys for the Control
menu:



Command             Shortcut key
___________________________________________________________________________

Restore             ALT+F5

Move                ALT+F7

Size                ALT+F8

Minimize            ALT+F9

Maximize            ALT+F10

Close               ALT+F4

For example, if you wanted to use the shortcut keys to enlarge a window
with the Maximize command, you would simply select the window and press
ALT+F10.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using a Dialog Box

Windows displays a dialog box when it needs additional infor-
mation to carry out a command. The dialog box contains areas where you
enter the information; there are different kinds of
areas depending on what kind of information is needed.

   _________________
















   _________________


________________________________________
Dialog-box areas

Here are some definitions and descriptions of the different areas that a
dialog box may have:


o The text box is where you type information. The text you type appears to
  the left of the insertion point, a flashing vertical line, which pushes
  any existing text to the right as you type.


o The list box contains the names of available choices-in the preceding
  illustration, the names of files and directories on the disk, and the
  disk drives. Files in a dialog box are listed by filename. Drives and
  subdirectories are indicated with brackets; hyphens distinguish drives
  from directories. For example, [-A-] represents drive A; [PIF] represents
  a subdirectory named PIF. The parent directory (one level up) is
  represented by two periods within brackets ([..]). The list box may have
  scroll bars if all available choices don't fit in the list box.


o Command buttons carry out commands when they are chosen; these buttons
  have labels-OK, Cancel, Open, Reset, for example-to indicate what the
  buttons do.

     _________________

















     _________________



o Circular option buttons let you select options for a particu-
  lar command. In a group of option buttons, only one option
  at a time can be selected. Windows treats the whole group
  of option buttons as a single area within the dialog box.


o Square check boxes also let you select options for a particular command.
  In a group of options with check boxes, several options can be selected
  at the same time. Windows treats each check box as a separate area within
  the dialog box.


o Grayed commands or options are inactive, which means that you can't
  currently use them.

Often a dialog box appears with information already in it reflecting what
you've selected on the screen (for example, a filename from your MS-DOS
Executive window). It can also display options you selected earlier, or the
default options preset in Windows.

Moving in a Dialog Box


________________________________________
Moving in dialog boxes

Moving from one area of a dialog box to another selects that area. The area
you select is always marked somehow-most often with a dotted box.

In some cases, you'll move within an area in order to select one of a group
of items within that area-for instance, a filename within a list box, or
one option button in a group of option buttons.

Selecting Areas with the Keyboard


________________________________________
The basic method

If you're using the keyboard, you can use either of two methods, depending
on your application. Just as you do with menus and commands, you can use a
basic keyboard method that works with any Windows application:


1 Press the TAB key to move from area to area in a dialog box.

You can use the same method in reverse:


1 Press SHIFT+TAB to move through the dialog box in the opposite direction.


________________________________________
The direct-access method

If the items in your dialog box show underlined letters in their names, you
can use the direct-access method to move directly to them:


1 Press and hold down the ALT key.


2 Press the underlined letter in the item name.


3 Release the ALT key.


Selecting Areas with the Mouse


________________________________________

If you're using a mouse, you can select any area in a dialog box easily:


1 Click the area.

When the area has a number of items within it, the item you click will be
selected.

Selecting Items Within an Area

Moving within an area in a dialog box is a little different from moving
between areas:


1 Use the DIRECTION keys to move from item to item within an area.

If you've selected an item in an area and you then move to another area,
the item remains selected.

The following are the areas that you may want to move in.

Text Box


________________________________________
Moving in a text box

In a text box, you use the DIRECTION keys to move to the right or to the
left in the line. The HOME key moves to the beginning of the line; the END
key moves to the end of the line.

Moving and selecting in a text box are not the same thing. To select text
in a text box, do this:


1 Press and hold down the SHIFT key and use a DIRECTION key to extend the
  selection. Selected text is highlighted.



________________________________________

You can use the mouse with the keyboard to select text in a
text box:


1 Press and hold down the SHIFT key.


2 Drag the pointer across the text you want to select.


3 Release SHIFT.


List Box


________________________________________
Moving in a list box

In a list box, you use the DIRECTION keys to move up and down in the list.
As you move in a list box, the item you move to is high-
lighted, to show that it's selected.

The HOME key moves to the top of the list and selects the first item; the
END key moves to the bottom of the list and selects the last item.

You can also use the PAGE UP and PAGE DOWN keys to move within a list box.
These keys will move the list up or down by the page-that is, as much as
will fit in the visible portion of the list box at one time-without
selecting a new item. When you're moving through the list using the PAGE UP
and PAGE DOWN keys, you may not be able to see the item that's actually
selected, if it isn't in the page that's visible.


________________________________________
Selecting in a list box

To select an item that you've moved to, just do this:


1 Press the SPACEBAR.

When you move to another area in the dialog box, whatever item you selected
in the list box remains selected.


________________________________________
Selecting in a list
box with the mouse

You can use the mouse to select items in a list box:


1 Click the item you want to select.

If the item isn't visible, use the scroll bar to make it visible.

Group of Option Buttons


________________________________________
Moving in a group of option buttons

You can use the DIRECTION keys to move through a group of option buttons.
Windows treats a group of option buttons as a single area in the dialog
box, and only one option button in the group can be selected at a time.
Moving to an item selects that item.


________________________________________

You can select an option button easily with the mouse by clicking the
option button.

Choosing a Command Button

Command buttons with bold borders are defaults-options that you're most
likely to want to choose.

   _________________






   _________________



________________________________________
Choosing the default command button

You can automatically choose the default command button:


1 Press the ENTER key.


Note Even if you have moved to another area of the dialog box, pressing the
ENTER key will still choose the default.



________________________________________

You can also choose a command button with the mouse:


1 Click the command button.

Some dialog boxes have Control menus. You can use the Close command from
the Control menu to close a dialog box that has no OK or Cancel button.


________________________________________
Canceling dialog boxes

You can always cancel a dialog box:


1 Press the ESCAPE key.


___________________________________________________________________________
Moving a Window or an Icon

You can move a window or an icon using your keyboard or your mouse.


________________________________________
Moving windows and icons

Here's how to move a window or icon using the keyboard:


1 Select the window or icon you want to move by pressing ALT+ESCAPE or
  ALT+TAB.


2 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.


3 Press M to choose the Move command. A four-headed arrow appears in your
  window.

4 Use the DIRECTION keys to move the window.

  An outline of the window borders moves as you press the DIRECTION keys.


5 After you have moved the window to its new location, press the ENTER key
  to complete the move.


________________________________________
Moving windows

Follow these steps to move a window with the mouse:


1 Point to the title bar of the window you want to move.


2 Drag the title bar. The highlighted borders mark the position of the
  window.


3 After you have moved the window to its new location, release the mouse
  button.



________________________________________
Moving icons

You move an icon with a mouse differently:


1 Point to the icon you want to move. (Point at the icon itself, not the
  title bar.)


2 Drag the icon to the new location on the screen.


3 Release the mouse button.


___________________________________________________________________________
Changing the Size of a Window

There are several easy ways to arrange the windows on your screen. If
you're using the keyboard, the Control-menu commands let you change the
size and shape of your windows. If you're using a mouse, you can directly
manipulate each window border to change sizes. (You can also manipulate
windows by using the Maximize, Minimize, and Restore boxes, which are
explained later in this chapter.)

   _________________











   _________________


Note Some applications, such as Calculator and Control Panel, have a fixed
size. The Size and Maximize commands appear grayed on the Control menu. The
application window doesn't have a Maximize box or adjustable borders. You
can only shrink these applications to icons and restore them.


   _________________















   _________________


________________________________________
Changing windows' sizes

You can change the size and shape of your windows by using the Size command
or by directly moving the borders with a mouse.

If you're using the keyboard, the Size command lets you change the size of
your windows. Here's what to do:


1 Select the active window by pressing ALT+ESCAPE or ALT+TAB.


2 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.


3 Press S to choose the Size command.

  A four-headed arrow appears in the middle of your window.

     _________________












     _________________



4
  Press one of the DIRECTION keys to select the border you want to move.


5 Use the DIRECTION keys to move the border up and down, or right and left.


6 When you finish adjusting the border, press the ENTER key.

The window assumes its new size.



________________________________________
Changing windows' sizes

You can directly adjust the size of any window with borders by using the
mouse. Follow these steps:


1 Select the window you want to size.


2 Point to a border or corner that you want to move. The mouse pointer
  becomes a two-headed arrow.

     _________________









     _________________



3 Drag the corner or border until the window is the size you want.


4 Release the mouse button.

Using the Size command or moving the borders of the windows allows you to
reduce your window to almost the size of its title bar or to enlarge it to
fill almost the entire screen.

___________________________________________________________________________
Enlarging a Window or an Icon

You can enlarge windows and icons to fill the entire screen.

   _________________












   _________________



________________________________________
Enlarging windows and icons

If you're using the keyboard, use the Maximize command from the Control
menu. Here's what to do:


1 Select the window or icon you want to enlarge by pressing ALT+ESCAPE or
  ALT+TAB.


2 Press ALT, SPACEBAR to select the Control menu.


3 Press X to choose the Maximize command.

Your window enlarges to fill the entire screen.



________________________________________

Here's how to enlarge a window to its maximum size with the mouse:


1 Select the window you want to enlarge.


2 Click the Maximize box in the upper-right corner of the window.


   _________________
















   _________________

The window fills your entire screen. Note that the Maximize box has
disappeared and the Restore box has taken its place.



________________________________________
Enlarging an icon with the mouse

You enlarge an icon with the mouse a little differently:


1
  Click the icon you want to enlarge.

  The Control menu appears.


2 Click the Maximize command.

The application window fills the entire screen.




___________________________________________________________________________
Shrinking a Window to an Icon

You shrink a window to an icon when you are finished working with it, but
want it easily available to use later. The application is still running in
memory (represented by the icon), but it's not taking up space in your work
area. You can do many of the same things with an icon that you can do with
a window, such as selecting it or moving it on the screen. And when you
want to work in the window again, you can use the Maximize or Restore
commands to enlarge it. You can shrink windows to icons using either the
keyboard or the mouse.


________________________________________
Shrinking windows to icons

If you are using a keyboard, follow these steps to shrink your window to an
icon:


1 Select the window you want to shrink by pressing ALT+ESCAPE.


2 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.


3 Choose the Minimize command by pressing N.


________________________________________

To shrink a window with the mouse, use the Minimize box in the upper
right-corner of the window. Here's how to do it:


1 Select the window you want to shrink.


2 Click the Minimize box.


     _________________












     _________________



___________________________________________________________________________
Restoring a Window or an Icon

You can restore a window to its previous size and place on your screen with
the Restore command (if you're using the keyboard) or with the Restore box
(if you're using a mouse). Restore returns your window to its original
size, or to the size you last made it. The Restore command also returns
your window to its original place on the screen, or to the place you last
moved it to.


________________________________________
Restoring windows and icons

If you're using the keyboard, follow these steps to choose the Restore
command:


1 Select the window that you want to restore by pressing ALT+ESCAPE or
  ALT+TAB. (Selecting an icon with ALT+TAB automatically restores it.)


2 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.

     _________________







     _________________



3 The Restore command is highlighted when you select the Control menu, so
  you can either press R or press the ENTER key to choose it.



________________________________________

You can use the Restore box to return a window to its previous size if
you're using a mouse. Follow these steps:


1 Select the window that you want to restore to its original size.

  The Restore box is in the upper-right corner of the window.

     _________________










     _________________



2 Click the Restore box.

To restore an icon to its previous size, do the following:


1 Double-click the icon.


___________________________________________________________________________
Using Scroll Bars

Some application windows and dialog boxes have scroll bars, which let you
view information that won't fit in the window.

   _________________





















   _________________



________________________________________
Scrolling with the keyboard

If you're using the keyboard, here's how to scroll after you have reached
the last character or item in the window:


1 Press the DIRECTION key in the direction you want to scroll.

For example, to scroll right, go to the right-most character or item on the
screen and keep pressing the RIGHT key.

In addition, some applications allow you to scroll by the screenful (that
is, as much as will fit in the window or dialog box at one time). The
following list shows keys that you can use in some applications to move in
a file or dialog box. Not all applications use these keys in the same way,
so it's best to try them out in each case.



To scroll   Press

___________________________________________________________________________

Up one      PAGE UP
screen

Down one    PAGE DOWN
screen

Left one    CONTROL+PAGE UP
screen

Right one   CONTROL+PAGE DOWN
screen


________________________________________

You can use the mouse to scroll to a general location in a file or dialog
box:


1 Drag the small white box (the scroll box) in the scroll bar to a position
  in the scroll bar that corresponds to the general location you want
  (beginning, middle, or end of the file or dialog box).


2 Release the mouse button.

The following list details how to scroll more precisely with the mouse:



To scroll   Do this
___________________________________________________________________________

One line    Click the scroll arrows at either end of the scroll bar.
at a time

One screen  Click the scroll bar on either side of the scroll box.
at a time


___________________________________________________________________________
Messages from an Inactive Window


________________________________________
Messages from inactive windows

When an inactive application needs to send you status or error information,
you hear a beep; the application then flashes its title bar or icon. To
receive the message, do the following:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE or use the mouse to select the window or icon.

The message appears as soon as you select the window or icon.

___________________________________________________________________________
Quitting an Application

You quit an application-remove it from memory-when you are finished with
it. To work with it again, you need to run the application from the MS-DOS
Executive window.

To quit an application, use the Exit command. This command is usually on
the first menu on the application's menu bar.

   _________________














   _________________


________________________________________
Using the Exit command

Follow these steps to quit an application using the keyboard:


1 Select the window of the application you want to quit by pressing
  ALT+ESCAPE or ALT+TAB.


2 Select the first menu on the left by pressing ALT and then the underlined
  letter.


3 Choose the Exit command by pressing X.


________________________________________

To use the Exit command with the mouse, do the following:


1 Click the window of the application you want to quit.


2 Click the first menu name on the left of the menu bar.


3 Click the Exit command.


________________________________________
Using the Close command

If the application does not have an Exit command, use the Control menu's
Close command. The Close command closes a window. Some applications may
have secondary windows or dialog boxes with Control menus (for example,
MS-DOS Executive's Get Info command). You can use the Close command to
close these secondary windows, but the main window remains open and the
application continues to run. If your application has only one window open,
the Close command closes that window and removes the application from
memory.

To use the Close command with the keyboard, do the following:


1 Select the Control menu by pressing ALT, SPACEBAR.


2 Choose the Close command by pressing C.


________________________________________

Here's how to close an application window with a mouse:


1 Double-click the Control-menu box.


________________________________________
Shortcut to end your Windows session

If you close the MS-DOS Executive window and no other MS-DOS Executive
windows are on the screen, your Windows session ends.


___________________________________________________________________________
Ending a Windows Session

When you end a Windows session, you quit Windows and return to DOS. If you
have applications running and files open when you end the session, you may
be prompted to save your files.


________________________________________
Ending a session

To end a session, follow these steps:


1 Select the Special menu with your mouse or by pressing the ALT key and
  then S.


2 Choose the End Session command.

  A dialog box asks you to confirm that you want to end the session.

     _________________














     _________________



3 Choose the OK button to end your session, or choose the Cancel button to
  cancel the command.

Your Windows session ends and you're returned to DOS.
