___________________________________________________________________________

11 Commands

This chapter describes the commands you use to manipulate windows, to work
with files, to adjust your system settings, and to print files. The command
summaries are organized by menu; they describe the functions of the
commands in the Control menu, MS-DOS Executive, Control Panel, and Spooler.

For details on procedures for these commands, see Chapter 4, Techniques;
Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS Executive; Chapter 7, Using Control Panel; and
Chapter 8, Using Spooler.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Control menu

The Control menu is common to all moveable, sizeable windows. It provides
commands that you can use to control the size and position of the window. A
Control menu is also displayed in some standard DOS applications when they
are run full-screen with Windows.

Note Your application may append additional commands to the Control menu.
See your application manual for details on these commands. Chapter 9, Using
Standard Applications, contains information on standard commands that an
application might append.


Restore  The Restore command restores a window to the size it was before it
was either enlarged to its maximum size or shrunk to an icon.

Move  The Move command lets you move a window to another position on the
screen.

Size  The Size command lets you change the size of a window.

Minimize  The Minimize command shrinks the selected window to an icon.

Maximize  The Maximize command enlarges the selected window to its maximum
size (the size depends on the application).

Close  The Close command closes the application window. If you close the
last or main window of an application, it may also cause you to exit from
the program.

___________________________________________________________________________
MS-DOS Executive

The MS-DOS Executive window runs automatically when you start Windows. You
need to use the MS-DOS Executive commands whenever you want to run an
application, end a Windows session, or manage your files. See Chapter 5,
Using MS-DOS Executive, for more detailed information.

________________________________________


The File Menu


Run  The Run command runs an application, or a program you have written.
Use the Run command when you need to provide additional information, such
as a pathname or volume name, for a program in order to run it.

Load  The Load command starts an application as an icon in the lower-left
corner of your screen, instead of automatically running the application in
a window.

Copy  The Copy command copies one or more files to a differ-
ent directory or disk. You can also use it to copy a single file to a
different filename.

Get Info  The Get Info command displays the selected file's name and
extension, its size in bytes, and the date and time the file was created or
most recently changed.

Delete  The Delete command deletes the selected file, files, or directory.

Print  The Print command prints the selected file or directory listing on
your printer.

Rename  The Rename command lets you change the name of a selected file.

Exit  The Exit command quits MS-DOS Executive. If there are no other MS-DOS
Executive windows open, the Exit command also ends your Windows session.
You will see a dialog box asking you to confirm that you want to end the
session.

About MS-DOS Executive  The About MS-DOS Executive command displays version
and copyright information about Windows and shows the amount of space
currently available to the system.

________________________________________


The View Menu

The View menu commands let you change the way you display the directory
listing. Checkmarks show which commands are active. You can select one
style characteristic from each group.

Short  This is the default. The Short command displays a directory listing
horizontally, by filename only.

Long  The Long command displays a directory listing in one long column,
with name, extension, size in bytes, and date and time last changed for
each file listed. The information by which the files are sorted (name,
date, size, or kind) appears in bold.

All  This is the default. The All command specifies that all the files in a
directory be listed.

Partial  The Partial command lets you specify which files should appear in
a directory listing. For example, you could list all files having the .MSP
extension by typing *.msp in the text box.

Programs  The Programs command specifies that only program files will be
displayed in a directory listing-these files have .EXE, .COM, or .BAT
extensions.

By Name  This is the default. The By Name command sorts a directory listing
alphabetically by filename.

By Date  The By Date command sorts a directory listing by the date and time
each file was created or most recently changed, listing the most recent
first.

By Size  The By Size command sorts a directory listing according to each
file's size in bytes, from largest to smallest.

By Kind  The By Kind command sorts a directory listing alphabetically by
filename extension. Files with the same extension are sorted alphabetically
by name.

________________________________________


The Special Menu


End Session  The End Session command ends your Windows session. You do not
need to shrink the windows that are ex-
panded or close the applications that are running before you choose the End
Session command.

Create Directory  The Create Directory command lets you create a new
directory.

Change Directory  The Change Directory command lets you change directories.

To move to a higher-level directory with a mouse, double-click the section
of the pathname (near the top of the MS-DOS Executive window) that you want
to go to.

Format Data Disk  The Format Data Disk command lets you format a data disk
from the MS-DOS Executive window.

Make System Disk  The Make System Disk command lets you create a bootable
disk (containing the DOS system files) from the MS-DOS Executive window.

Set Volume Name  The Set Volume Name command lets you give the current disk
a descriptive name to identify its contents.

___________________________________________________________________________
Control Panel

Control Panel controls some system settings. Most changes made with Control
Panel are reflected in the WIN.INI file (described in Appendix A,
Customizing Your WIN.INI File). See Chapter 7, Using Control Panel, for
more detailed information.

________________________________________


The Installation Menu

The Installation-menu commands let you add or remove a printer or font
without rerunning the Setup program.

Add New Printer  The Add New Printer command adds a printer to your system
by adding a printer-driver file to the specified disk or directory.

Delete Printer  The Delete Printer command removes a printer you have
already set up.

Add New Font  The Add New Font command adds a font to your system by adding
a new font file to the specified disk or directory.

Delete Font  The Delete Font command removes a font you have already set
up.

Exit  The Exit command quits Control Panel and removes the program from
system memory.

About Control Panel  The About Control Panel command dis-
plays version and copyright information about the Control Panel program.

________________________________________


The Setup Menu

The Setup-menu commands let you change printer-port assignments, set the
system default printer and specify its output modes, and set up serial
communications ports.

Connections  The Connections command lets you assign or change printer
ports.

Printer  The Printer command lets you specify a default printer. This
command also displays dialog boxes for additional information that a
printer might require (type of paper, for example).

Communications Port  The Communications Port command lets you specify a
serial communications port and select parameters, such as baud rate, word
length, parity, and stop bits.

________________________________________


The Preferences Menu

The Preferences-menu commands let you control screen colors.

Screen Colors  The Screen Colors command lets you specify color adjustments
to your screen.

Border Width  The Border Width command lets you specify how wide the window
borders will be. After you type a number and confirm it by choosing the OK
button, all the windows on the screen are redrawn with the new border
width.

Warning Beep  The Warning Beep command lets you turn on or off the beep
that sounds in response to an invalid keystroke or mouse click. When a
checkmark appears next to the command, the system beep is on. When no
checkmark appears, the beep is off.

Mouse  The Mouse command lets you switch usage between the left and right
mouse buttons. It also lets you control the mouse acceleration speed (how
fast the mouse pointer moves).

Country Settings  The Country Settings command lets you set variables (such
as the formats for date, number, and time) for a particular country.

___________________________________________________________________________
Spooler

Spooler controls the printing of files. For more information on Spooler,
see Chapter 8, Using Spooler.

________________________________________


The Priority Menu


Low  The Low command prints your file more slowly and frees computer
resources for other applications you are working with.

High  The High command speeds up your printing job. It uses more system
resources for printing, so other applications will run more slowly.

Exit  The Exit command stops the Spooler program. If there are any print
jobs still in the queue, you will see a message warning you that they will
be terminated. You can either confirm or cancel the Exit command.

About Spooler  The About Spooler command displays version and copyright
information about the Spooler program.

________________________________________


The Queue Menu

Pause  The Pause command temporarily halts the job that is printing.

Resume  The Resume command restarts printing of a job that was halted with
the Pause command.

Terminate  The Terminate command cancels a job that is printing or that is
in the queue.

















































