___________________________________________________________________________

Appendix A
Customizing Your WIN.INI File

Your WIN.INI file contains settings for many Microsoft Windows features and
Windows applications. Windows checks the WIN.INI file and uses the settings
it finds there every time you start Windows. When you make changes to these
settings by using Control Panel, the WIN.INI file is automatically updated
to reflect the changes.

You'll rarely need to work directly in your WIN.INI file to make changes;
the instructions in this appendix are provided primarily for special system
customization. The settings in your WIN.INI file may differ from those
shown here.

Since Windows keeps important system settings in the WIN.INI file, you
should edit it carefully. Before you attempt to modify the file, make a
backup copy; if you find that Windows does not run properly with the
modified WIN.INI file, you can revert to your backup copy.

Changes you make directly to WIN.INI do not take effect until Windows is
restarted. To make the changes effective immediately, quit Windows, then
start it again.

___________________________________________________________________________
Editing Your WIN.INI File

You can make changes directly to your WIN.INI file by using Notepad. See
the Microsoft Windows Desktop Applications User's Guide for information on
using Notepad.

When you open WIN.INI from Notepad, you will see a series of sections that
appear in the following format:

[ section name ]
keyword1=setting1 setting2 ...
keyword2=setting1 setting2 ...


________________________________________
Changing WIN.INI settings

To change WIN.INI settings and make them effective immediately, follow
these steps:


1 Open WIN.INI from Notepad.


2 Locate the settings you want to change and edit them.


3 Save WIN.INI.


4 Quit and restart Windows.


Note You can also edit WIN.INI from another word-processing application.
When you save WIN.INI, be sure to save it as an ASCII text file
(unformatted). Windows will open a formatted text file but may not be able
to properly read it.


___________________________________________________________________________
Using the Setup Program


________________________________________
Retaining settings in the WIN.INI file

At times you may need to run the Setup program again; for example, you will
need to do so if you add new hardware such as a mouse or a graphics card,
or if you update Windows. Windows is designed so that when you run Setup,
your existing WIN.INI file is not automatically replaced. However, you may
want to use some information from the new WIN.INI file (the file that would
be created if you were running Setup for the first time). Here's how to
save information you need from your old WIN.INI file and combine it with
information from a new WIN.INI file:


1 Make a copy of your old WIN.INI file and rename it WIN.OLD.


2 Delete your old WIN.INI file, then run Setup to re-install the Windows
  software.


3 Using Notepad or another text editor, copy the sections of your new
  WIN.INI file that you want to keep into your WIN.OLD file.


4 Delete your new WIN.INI file and rename WIN.OLD as WIN.INI.


5 Quit and restart Windows.


___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Windows]

The [windows] section of WIN.INI contains the following settings:


o Spooler use


o Double-click speed


o Cursor-blink rate


o Programs listed in MS-DOS Executive's directory listing


o Applications that are run automatically when Windows is started


o System default printer selection


o Mouse options


o Printer-problem message delay

Windows automatically modifies the blink rate and double-click speed in
WIN.INI any time you change these settings in the Control Panel window. It
is easier to change these settings by using Control Panel than by editing
WIN.INI. See Chapter 7, Using Control Panel, for more information.


________________________________________
Settings in [windows]

The following settings are typical for the [windows] section in WIN.INI.

   _________________














   _________________

In the actual WIN.INI file, entries are often separated by comment lines
(any line beginning with a semicolon). The comment lines explain how to use
the setting.

The numbers that follow the equal sign in the DoubleClickSpeed and
CursorBlinkRate settings are read by Windows as millisec-
onds, and can range from 0 to 65535. The higher the number, the slower the
rate. The device entry indicates the default printer (or plotter), the
device's printer-driver filename, and the device's default port.

Printing Without the Spooler

Windows is designed to print files by using the Spooler program. You can
print from a Windows application without using Spooler by editing the
spooler= line in the [windows] section. Printing without Spooler may be
preferable when running Windows on a two-drive system since it conserves
disk space. However, printing without Spooler slows down Windows' ability
to work with other applications while you are printing files.

When you first set up Windows, the spooler= line looks like the following
example.

   _________________



________________________________________
Changing the spooler= line

To print without Spooler, follow this step:


1 Change the spooler= line from yes to no.


Changing MS-DOS Executive's Programs Listing

When you choose the View menu's Programs command in MS-DOS Executive, only
files having the .EXE, .COM, and .BAT extensions are listed. You can add or
delete types of files shown by the Programs command by editing the
programs= line in the [windows] section.

After you run Setup, your initial settings for the programs= line look like
the following example.

   _________________
   _________________


________________________________________
Changing the programs= line

You may want to have other types of files listed, for example, files with
the .PIF extension. To change the programs= setting, follow this step:


1 Type the filename extension in the programs= line. Do not type a period
  before the extension. Be sure to include a space between filename
  extensions.


Starting Applications Automatically as Icons

MS-DOS Executive runs in a window automatically when you start Windows. You
can have Windows automatically start other applications as icons by editing
the load= line in the [windows] section. When you first set up Windows, the
load= line is blank.


________________________________________
Adding applications to the load= line

To add applications to the load= line, follow this step:


1 Type the filenames of the applications you want Windows to start
  automatically as icons. The applications will have either a .EXE, .COM,
  or .BAT filename extension, but you do not need to type the extension.
  Filenames can be up to eight characters in length. Be sure to include a
  space or a comma between the filenames.

For example, the following entry runs Clock, Control Panel, and Clipboard
as icons whenever you start a Windows session.

   _________________

If the filename that follows the equal sign in the load setting does not
represent an application, you must also include the file's extension. Make
sure that the file's extension is included as an entry in the [extensions]
section of your WIN.INI file. For more information, see the section called
Settings in [Extensions] later in this chapter.

For example, if you have a Notepad text file of on-going activi-
ties that you want to update at the beginning of every Windows session, you
would need to put the complete filename into the load= line, as shown in
the following entry.

   _________________
   _________________

When you provide only a filename in the load= line, Windows searches the
current drive and directory for the file. If the file is not in your
current drive or directory, you need to type a pathname as the load= entry.

Note Do not list any applications that require a large amount of memory or
memory-resident applications in the load= line. For more information on
these applications, see Chapter 9, Using Standard Applications.


Starting Applications as Windows

In addition to having some applications start as icons, you can have
Windows automatically start some applications as windows. To do this, you
add the appropriate filenames to the run= line
in the [windows] section of the WIN.INI file. The instructions
for adding filenames to the run= line are the same as those for adding
filenames to the run= line.


________________________________________
Adding applications to the run= line

To add applications to the run= line, follow this step:


1 Type the filenames of the applications that you want Windows to
  automatically start as windows. The applications will have either a .EXE,
  .COM, or .BAT filename extension, but you do not need to type the
  extension. Filenames can be up to eight characters in length. Be sure to
  include a space or a comma between the filenames.


For example, the following setting runs Clock, Control Panel, and Clipboard
as windows whenever you start a Windows session.

   _________________

If the filename that follows the equal sign in the load setting does not
represent an application, you must also include the file's extension. Make
sure that the file's extension is included as an entry in the [extensions]
section of your WIN.INI file. For more information, see the section called
Settings in [Extensions] later in this chapter.

When you provide only a filename in the run= line, Windows searches the
current drive and directory for the file. If the file is not in your
current drive or directory, you need to type a pathname as the run= entry.

Note Do not list any applications that require a large amount of memory or
memory-resident applications in the run= line. For more information on
these applications, see Chapter 9, Using Standard Applications.


Changing Mouse Options


________________________________________
Adjusting mouse settings

Several of the settings in the [windows] section affect the mouse. In
Control Panel, you can adjust the mouse settings by using the Preferences
menu's Mouse command. The following settings are the defaults.

   _________________


   _________________

The SwapMouseButtons entry switches the mouse-button function from the left
to the right button or vice versa.

The xMouseThreshold=, yMouseThreshold=, and MouseSpeed= settings let you
change the speed at which the mouse pointer moves across the screen.

The values of xMouseThreshold and yMouseThreshold set a num-
ber of pixels horizontally and vertically. If the mouse movement doesn't
exceed these values, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the
movement of the mouse pointer and the mouse itself. If the mouse movement
exceeds the values, then the mouse-pointer speed equals 2 raised to the
power of the MouseSpeed value. The default value of MouseSpeed is 1.

Setting the Warning Beep


________________________________________
Adjusting the warning beep

The beep= line sets the warning beep that sounds when you press the wrong
key or select the wrong option. When you set up Windows, the beep option is
active. The setting in the [windows] section of the WIN.INI file looks like
the following entry.

   _________________
   _________________

You can turn this feature off by changing the line in the WIN.INI file to
beep=no.

In Control Panel, you can use the Preferences menu's Warning Beep command
to turn the feature off or on.

Changing the Width of the Window Border


________________________________________
Adjusting the window border width

The BorderWidth= line specifies the window border width. The default value
is 5. When you set up Windows, the setting in the [windows] section looks
like the following entry.

   _________________

Higher values correspond to wider borders; smaller values to narrower
borders. You can set the border width to any integer value between 1 and
50. In Control Panel, you can change this setting by using the Preferences
menu's Border Width command.

Setting the Printing-Problem Message Delay


________________________________________
Adjusting the printing message delay

There are two additional settings in the [windows] section that affect
printing: DeviceNotSelectedTimeout= and Transmission-
RetryTimeout=. These settings determine the number of seconds allowed to
correct printing problems before Windows sends you a message about the
problem. The default settings are shown in the following example.

   _________________

   _________________

The DeviceNotSelectedTimeout= setting specifies the amount of time that
passes before you see a message stating that the printer is off-line.

The TransmissionRetryTimeout= setting specifies the amount of time that
passes before you see a message stating that the device isn't ready. This
message may be displayed under various circum-
stances and means that the printer is not reading the characters that it is
being sent.

In Control Panel, you can adjust these settings by using the Setup menu's
Printer command.

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Extensions]


________________________________________
Specifying filename extensions

Many applications supply a filename extension to the files you create with
them. For example, Cardfile appends the extension .CRD to the files you
create with it. Windows puts this extension information in the [extensions]
section in the WIN.INI file.

This makes it possible for you to start an application by opening one of
the files you've created with it.

The following entries are a typical list of settings in [extensions].

   _________________



   _________________

You can increase the number of extensions associated with an application by
adding entries to the [extensions] section. For example, if you want to be
able to open files that have the extension .ASM from Notepad (or open a
.ASM file and start Notepad at the same time), you'd type the entry
asm=notepad.exe ^.asm on its own line.

When you provide only a filename in an entry, Windows searches the current
drive and directory for the file. If the file is not in your current drive
or directory, you need to type a pathname in the entry instead of just a
filename.

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Colors]


________________________________________
Screen-color settings

The entries in the [colors] section of WIN.INI reflect the color settings
of various parts of the Windows screen. In Control Panel, you can adjust
these settings by using the Preferences menu's Screen Colors command. The
following entries are typical settings.

   _________________










   _________________

The three numbers on the right represent RGB (red, green, and blue)
settings respectively from 0 to 255. Zero represents no color (black); 255
represents fully-saturated color.

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Pif]

In the [pif] section of WIN.INI, you can specify memory size for standard
applications that you run in a window. You can also use this section to
list information Windows will use when swapping applications to a disk.
When Windows swaps an application, it temporarily transfers it from system
memory to a disk.

To set the memory size for a standard application, you list the application
in the [pif] section of WIN.INI, as described in the following section. By
doing so, you can specify the amount of memory you want the application to
use without having to create a PIF file. To run the program, Windows
combines the memory setting you listed with a group of default settings.
For more information on creating and using PIF files, see Chapter 9, Using
Standard Applications.

Note You can create PIF settings in WIN.INI only for programs that you are
running in a window.


Creating a [Pif] Entry


________________________________________
Making [pif] entries

To create a [pif] entry for an application, follow these steps:


1 Type [pif] on an empty line to create the [pif] section. This entry
  indicates that the lines in the section contain program information.


2 On the next line, type the name of the program, followed by an equal
  sign, then the amount of memory (in kilobytes) required to run the
  application. You can find the memory requirements for your application in
  the application's manual.

For example, if you wanted to create entries for COMMAND.COM, CHKDSK, and
EDLIN, the [pif] section of your WIN.INI file would look like the following
example.

   _________________


   _________________


Once you create a [pif] entry for a program, Windows uses the following
default settings:


o Program Title: Filename without extension


o Initial Directory: Ignored


o Parameters: Ignored


o Memory Required: Specified in the [pif] entry as described previously


o Memory Desired: Same as Memory Required


o Directly Modifies: None


Specifying Swapping Information

The [pif] section in the WIN.INI file also lists the information that
Windows uses when swapping applications to a disk (see Chapter 9, Using
Standard Applications, for more information).

The swapdisk= and swapsize= settings determine where Windows swaps an
application and what the minimum swap space should be. When you set up
Windows, the initial settings look like the following entries.

   _________________

   _________________



________________________________________
Changing the swapdisk= line

You can modify the swapdisk= line to change how Windows swaps programs to a
disk. The swapdisk= setting has the following form:

swapdisk=drive:

This setting causes Windows to swap to the root (\) directory of the given
drive.

If you don't use the swapdisk= line in WIN.INI, Windows auto-
matically swaps to the drive and directory specified by the TEMP
environment variable. You can edit the WIN.INI file to list the drive that
contains your TEMP directory (for example, swapdisk=c:). If no TEMP
directory is defined by the TEMP environment variable, Windows swaps to the
first hard disk in your system. For more information on creating a TEMP
directory, see Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS Executive.

Note Do not set a floppy-disk drive as the swap disk.


________________________________________
Using expanded memory

If your computer has expanded memory, you can edit the swapdisk= line to
take advantage of it. For more information on using expanded memory, see
Appendix E, Special Notes on Running Windows. To swap to expanded memory,
change the swapdisk= entry to the following line.

   _________________

If there is a shortage of expanded memory, Windows swaps to the drive
specified in the TEMP environment variable. You can also use the /E option
when swapdisk= is set to a drive; for example, swapdisk=c: /e. If there is
no expanded memory available, Windows swaps to the TEMP directory or, if no
TEMP directory is defined, to the root directory on the drive.

The setting swapdisk=0 disables swapping completely.


________________________________________
Changing the swapsize= line

When swapping applications, Windows allocates the amount of memory reserved
for swapping based on the first application that is swapped. If swapsize=0
(the default setting), Windows will set the swapping size to the size of
the first application that you run that can be swapped. For this reason,
you achieve best performance by running the largest program first.

If you want to reserve a minimum amount of memory for swapping, you can
change the swapsize= entry to the preferred size in kilobytes. You should
reserve the program size and a 2K overhead for saving information about the
application's current state.

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Intl]


________________________________________
Country settings

The [intl] section in your WIN.INI file contains information about formats
for numbers, currencies, time, dates, and measures for the particular
country that Windows is installed for on your machine. For example, the
[intl] settings for the United States might look something like the
following entries.

   _________________













   _________________

In Control Panel, you change the entries in the [intl] section by using the
Preferences menu's Country Settings command. You most likely would edit
these settings to supply information for a country not shown in the Country
Settings dialog box.

The following list describes the entries in the [intl] section of WIN.INI:



Setting       Description
___________________________________________________________________________

iCountry=     Country code; see your DOS manual for details

iDate=        0 for mdy (month, day, year), 1 for dmy, 2 for ymd

iCurrency=    0 for currency-symbol prefix, no separation

              1 for currency-symbol suffix, no separation

              2 for currency-symbol prefix, one-character separation

              3 for currency-symbol suffix, one-character separation

iDigits=      Number of significant decimal digits in currency

iTime=        0 for 12-hour clock, 1 for 24-hour clock

iLzero=
              0 for no leading zeros, 1 for leading zeros

s1159=        Trailing string from 0:00 to 11:59

s2359=        Trailing string from 12:00 to 23:59

sCurrency=    Currency-symbol string

sThousand=    Thousands-separator string

sDecimal=     Decimal-separator string

sDate=        Date-separator string

sTime=        Time-separator string

sList=        List-separator string

dialog=       Always select yes. This adds the Country Settings command to
              the Preferences menu.


___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Ports]


________________________________________
Port settings

This section of WIN.INI lists the ports available for your system. A
typical port setting might look like the following example.

   _________________



   _________________

The values to the right of the COM1:= entry represent Baud Rate, Parity,
Word Length, and Stop Bits options, in that order. See your DOS manual for
an explanation of these options.

The information in the [ports] section is automatically entered in WIN.INI
when you run Setup. In Control Panel, you can change these entries by
choosing commands from the Setup menu.

Sending Printer Output to a File


You can send printer (or plotter) output to a file rather than to the
printer by adding the file's name to the [ports] section. This is useful if
you want to format a document for a printer that you do not have on your
system (you don't need to have the printer to use its printer-driver file).
For example, in the following [ports] section, the line OUTPUT.PRN= has
been added so that output can be sent to the OUTPUT.PRN file.

   _________________




   _________________


________________________________________
Sending printer output to a file
To send printer output to a file, follow these steps:


1 Add the filename to the [ports] sections of your WIN.INI file.


2 Quit and restart Windows.


3 Run Control Panel.


4 Select the Setup menu and choose the Connections command. A dialog box
  appears. The filename you added to WIN.INI is displayed with the other
  ports in the Connections list box.


5 In the Printer list box, select the printer on which you eventually want
  to print the file.


6 Select the filename in the Connections list box.


7 Choose the OK button.

You can list up to eight entries (including your normal port listings) in
the [ports] section. Each time that you send printer output to the file,
the information that was previously in the file is overwritten.

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Devices]


________________________________________
Device settings

The [devices] section in WIN.INI lists your system's output (printing)
devices and their printer-driver files and port connections. The settings
in [devices] are set when you run the Setup program and can be reset in
Control Panel by using the Setup menu
commands.

A typical [devices] section looks like the following entries.

   _________________

   _________________

The left side of the setting specifies the printer name, and the right side
specifies the device's printer-driver file and port (if one is assigned).

___________________________________________________________________________
Settings in [Fonts]


________________________________________
Font settings

The fonts available on your system are listed in the [fonts] section of the
WIN.INI file. In the following example of a [fonts] section entry, italics
represent characters to be typed exactly as shown and bold represents
placeholders whose actual names or numbers you must supply. The format of
an entry is as follows:

fontname  pointsize(s)  (Set #number)=font filename

The following line is a typical [fonts] entry.

   _________________
   _________________

In Control Panel, you can add and delete fonts by using commands from the
Installation menu.


























































