___________________________________________________________________________

Appendix E
Special Notes
on Running Windows

This appendix contains additional information on the following topics:


o Running Microsoft Windows with certain hardware


o Running certain standard applications


o Using expanded memory with Windows


o Using CHKDSK with Windows


o Using SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN with Windows


___________________________________________________________________________
Notes on Hardware


Maynard Hard Disk

If you have a Maynard hard disk, it is recommended that you use only
version 2.4 or greater of the hard-disk software. An early version of the
Maynard hard-disk software may contain an error that prevents it from
working correctly with Windows.

Pointing Devices

If you have a Microsoft Bus Mouse, and Windows does not respond to mouse
movements, you may need to change the jumper on the Bus Mouse Adapter.
Generally, you should set the jumper to IRQ2 for the IBM PC XT and IRQ5 for
the IBM PC AT. See the Microsoft Mouse User's Guide for details on how to
change the jumper.

TI Printers

If you have a TI850 or 855 printer, set the mode switch for draft-quality
text when you use the printer with Windows. On the TI-
855, you can only use the default character set since this is the one
supported by the Windows device driver. Font cartridges for the TI855 are
not supported.

Running Applications with Display Adapters

Your display adapter may have additional features beyond those supported by
the display driver, and your standard application may use some of these
features. If so, you will probably be able to run the application, but
screen switching and taking snapshots of the screen won't work correctly.
To correct this problem, set up the software when you install it so that it
does not use the display adapter's special features.

If you are using a standard application with an enhanced graphics adapter
(EGA) card that is running in high-resolution mode, your application will
not switch. If you want your application to be able to switch, you should
install or run the application in character/text or low-resolution graphics
mode.

___________________________________________________________________________
Notes on Standard Applications

Since these applications were not originally designed to run with Windows,
there are some tips you should follow to make them run smoothly.

Running BASIC and BASICA with Windows

The PIF files for BASIC that are included with Windows, BASIC.PIF and
BASICA.PIF, have been set up to prevent conflicts between BASIC and other
communications programs you may be running. (COM options have been set in
these PIF files.) There are two results that you should be aware of:


________________________________________
Running multiple copies of BASIC



o Setting the COM options prevents you from running multiple copies of
  BASIC at the same time. If you wish to run more than one copy of BASIC,
  use PIF Editor to turn off the COM check boxes.


o
  ________________________________________
  Running BASIC without a communi- cations port

  When you attempt to run BASIC or BASICA without a communications port
  installed on your system, you will receive a message indicating that the
  communications ports are unavailable. Although the message itself does
  not cause any action, you may want to avoid getting this message each
  time you start BASIC. If so, use PIF Editor to turn off the COM check
  boxes.


Using Lotus Symphony with Windows

When using the Symphony program with Windows, be aware that the Paste
command (Control menu) will not work for character strings longer than 40
characters. Symphony doesn't process characters until the end of the string
and Symphony's internal buffer limit is 40 characters.

Using Lotus 1-2-3 with Windows

When run with Windows, Lotus 1-2-3 may not close the printer file properly.
To print over a network, you will need to press CONTROL+ALT+PRINTSCREEN,
which closes the printer file.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using Expanded Memory with Windows

You can use your computer's expanded memory to store and run applications
with Windows. Expanded memory, found on expanded memory boards, increases
the size of your computer's available memory beyond the 640K that DOS makes
available to applications. Computers that use expanded memory must load and
run a special program called an expanded memory manager. Windows can use
expanded memory for applications and data if your computer's expanded
memory manager has special support for Windows.

If you plan to use expanded memory with Windows, you may want to change the
memory configuration of your computer to take the best possible advantage
of your expanded memory board. Sometimes expanded memory works best if you
disable some of your computer's main memory. For tips on whether you should
change your memory configuration and for an explanation of how to change
the configuration, see the README.TXT file provided on the Microsoft
Windows Write Program disk.

Note Windows cannot use extended memory. Extended mem-
ory is memory used with computers such as IBM PC AT and compatibles that
provides program and data storage beyond the one megabyte limit of these
computers. If your computer has extended memory, you can use it indirectly
with Windows by using the SMARTDrive program. SMARTDrive is a disk-caching
program that uses your extended or expanded memory to reduce the amount of
time that is required for Windows to read information from your hard disk.
See Appendix C, Speeding Up Windows with SMARTDrive, for more information
about SMARTDrive.


Setting up Expanded Memory
for Use with Windows

To use expanded memory with Windows, follow these steps:


1 Check the README.TXT file included on your Microsoft Windows Write
  Program disk or consult the documentation for your expanded-memory
  hardware to make sure your expanded memory manager supports Windows.
  Although your manufacturer provides an expanded memory manager with your
  board, not all managers support Windows.


2 Install the expanded memory board according to your manufacturer's
  instructions.


3 Install the expanded memory manager according to your manufacturer's
  instructions. You may be required to modify your computer's CONFIG.SYS
  file. If so, follow your manufac-
  turer's instructions carefully and be prepared to restart your computer
  to make sure the expanded memory manager is loaded.

When installing the expanded memory manager, reserve as much of your
expanded memory as possible to use with Windows (and SMARTDrive). Avoid
reserving memory for programs, such as memory disks and print spoolers,
that may compete with Windows for expanded memory. The more expanded memory
you let Windows have, the more efficiently Windows can use the memory for
your applications.

Once expanded memory has been installed, you can start Windows. Windows
will then use expanded memory automatically- there are no additional steps
you need to take.

Running Standard Applications
that Use Expanded Memory Specifications

The special expanded memory manager that is required for Windows support is
upwardly compatible with popular expanded memory specifications (EMS). This
means that standard applications that access memory using the expanded
memory specifications supported by INTEL Above Board or AST RAMPage can
still access memory to store data when they are run with Windows. If
expanded memory is available, Windows provides the application with the
memory it requests through the EMS interface.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using CHKDSK with Windows

It is recommended that you not use the DOS CHKDSK program
in Windows. If you do run it from Windows, do not use the /F parameter.
CHKDSK was not designed to run with Windows, and using the /F parameter
will close any files your Windows applications are using (such as temporary
files).

___________________________________________________________________________
Using SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN with Windows

Windows does not change the operation of SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN, which is used
to print images of standard applications. Since Windows uses the graphics
mode, you should see your DOS manual for information on how to print a
graphics screen. (You should not press SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN unless you have a
printer attached and online.) For general information on using
SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN, see your DOS manual.

























































