{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar 
\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\author David Janson}{\creatim\yr1995\mo5\dy18\hr12\min13}
{\version1}{\edmins62}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49221}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_COUNTRYCODE}} Lists the country names and country code prefixes.  Select the one for where you want to dial.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_TAPILINE}} Lists all the TAPI Lines (usually modems) configured to work with your computer.  Select the one that you want to use.\tab \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {
\cs16\super #} IDC_CONFIGURELINE}} Click this to configure the TAPI Line Properties for the selected TAPI Line.  These properties include such things as which comm port the modem is configured to use and what speed at which to connect.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar This control is only enabled if the selected TAPI Line is usable by the TapiComm sample.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_DIALINGPROPERTIES}}
 Click this to configure the Dialing Properties for your selected location.  These properties allow you change such things as the country and area code where you are or the selected a calling card.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar This control is only enabled if the selected TAPI Line is usable by the TapiComm sample.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_PHONENUMBER}}
 Provides a space for you to type the phone number you want to dial.  If \ldblquote Use Country Code and Area Code\rdblquote  is checked, then don\rquote t include that information here.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {
\cs16\super #} IDC_DIAL}} Click this to dial the phone number.
\par 
\par This control is only enabled if the selected TAPI Line is usable by the TapiComm sample and if the Displayable Phone Number is valid.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_AREACODE}}
 Provides a space for you to type the area code for where you want to dial.  If you are dialing to a country that has city codes instead of area codes, type the city code here.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {
\cs16\super #} IDC_CALLINGCARD}} Shows the calling card that will be used to dial this call.   To change the calling card, click Dialing Properties.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_USEDIALINGRULES}} 
Check this to enable the use of the Country Code and Area Code controls.
\par Clear this if you don\rquote t want any translation done to your phone number.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_LOCATION}} Lists location entries.  
Select the location from which you are currently dialing.  To edit a location entry, click Dialing Properties.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_CANONICALNUMBER}}
 Shows the Canonical Number as composed by TapiComm to be translated by TAPI.
\par 
\par Most applications should {\cf6 *NOT*} display this number; it is only here for demonstration purposes.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_DISPLAYABLENUMBER}} Shows the Displayable Number a
fter being translated by TAPI.  This is usually the only number displayed by an application.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_DIALABLENUMBER}} Shows the Dialable Number after being translated by TAPI.  
This is the number that will actually be dialed.
\par 
\par Most applications should {\cf6 *NOT*} display this number; it is only here for demonstration purposes.\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {\cs16\super #} IDC_LINEICON}} 
This is the icon associated with the selected TAPI Line.  It does nothing except look nice.\page 
\par }