___________________________________________________________________________

4 Tools Summary

This chapter briefly describes the purpose of each of Paint's tools and how
to use them.

Try using these tools together with different patterns, shapes, and
commands to create new objects or new drawings. Once you feel comfortable
using Paint, refer to this chapter whenever you need a reminder on how to
use a particular tool.

___________________________________________________________________________
How to Use Paint's Tools


________________________________________


Selection Rectangle

You use the Selection Rectangle tool to specify a rectangular drawing area
for editing.

Position the pointer near the area you want to select. Drag the pointer up,
down, to the left, or to the right to enclose the area in a dotted
rectangular selection box. When you release the mouse button, the area is
selected.

If you want to cancel the selection, just click the mouse button outside
the selection box.

________________________________________


Selection Net

You use the Selection Net tool to specify a non-rectangular drawing area
for editing.

Position the pointer near the area you want to select. Drag the pointer
around the area to enclose it. When you release the mouse button, Paint
closes the ends of the net with a straight line. The enclosed area turns
gray to indicate that it is selected.

To cancel the selection, just click the mouse button outside the selected
area.

Note If you want to use the Trace Edges, Flip Horizontal, or Flip Vertical
commands from the Edit menu, you must use the Selection Rectangle tool, not
the Selection Net, to select the area you want to change.


________________________________________


Text

You use the Text tool to add text to a drawing.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the text to appear, and click
the mouse button. This positions the insertion point. Type the text you
want, using the SPACEBAR to insert spaces and the BACKSPACE key to correct
mistakes.

You can use the commands from the Character, Size, and Style menus to
change the font, size, or type style of the text. You can keep modifying
the text you have typed until you click the mouse button again, select
another tool, or perform another Paint or Windows action. Once you have
clicked the mouse button, the commands you choose from these menus will
affect the next text you type.

Once you have positioned the insertion point, you can move the pointer out
of the way and the insertion point will stay where you positioned it.

________________________________________


Scroll

You use the Scroll tool to move a drawing in the drawing window. This tool
is useful if you want to create a drawing larger than the drawing window.

To move the drawing up, position the pointer at the bottom of the drawing
window. Drag the pointer up. The top of your drawing slides out of the
drawing window. To move the drawing down, position the pointer at the top
of the drawing window. Drag the pointer down. The bottom of the drawing
slides out of the drawing window.

________________________________________


Pencil

You use the Pencil tool the same way you use a regular pencil to sketch or
to create a free-hand drawing.

Move the pointer to the place where you want to draw. Drag the pointer to
sketch an object.

Hint If you want more control when using the Pencil to draw straight lines,
you can choose a grid, or you can draw using the keyboard keys instead of
the mouse. See Chapter 5, Command Summary, for information about the Grid
commands.


________________________________________


Eraser

You use the Eraser tool to erase a part of your drawing that you no longer
want.

Move the pointer to the area you want to erase. Drag the pointer over the
area to erase it.

________________________________________


Line

You use the Line tool to draw a straight line using the current line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the line to start. Drag the
pointer to where you want the line to end, then release the mouse button.

________________________________________


Brush

You use the Brush tool to paint an area of your drawing using the current
pattern and brush shape.

Move the pointer to the area you want to paint. Drag the pointer to paint
the area.

Hint If you want more control when using the brush, you can choose a grid,
or you can paint using the keyboard keys instead of the mouse. See Chapter
5, Command Summary, for information about the Grid commands.


________________________________________


3-D

You use the 3-D tool to create objects that have a three-dimen- sional
appearance. When you hold down the mouse button, three axis lines appear in
the drawing window.

Drag the pointer along the axes. The axes move as you drag. Release the
mouse button to draw a line. The point where the axes meet when you release
the mouse button determines the end point of the line.

Hint As with all of Paint's tools, you can use the 3-D tool with the mouse.
However, you may find that you have more control if you use the keyboard to
draw with this tool.


________________________________________


Fill

You use the Fill tool to fill an enclosed area with the current pattern.

Move the pointer into the area you want to fill. Click the mouse button to
fill the area.

Note Make sure that the area you want to fill is completely enclosed.
Otherwise the pattern will spill out.


________________________________________


Curve

You use the Curve tool to draw a curve.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the curve to start. Drag the
pointer to draw a straight line. Position the pointer next to the line, and
press the mouse button. The pointer marks the peak of the curve. Drag the
pointer up, down, to the right, or to the left to stretch the line into the
type of curve you want.

________________________________________


Spray Paint

You use the Spray Paint tool to spray paint using the current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want to spray paint. Click the
mouse button to spray dabs of paint. Drag the pointer
to leave several dabs of paint in the pointer path.

________________________________________


Rectangle

You use the Rectangle tool to draw a rectangle using the current line
width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the rectangle to appear. Drag
the pointer up, down, to the left, or to the right to draw the rectangle,
then release the mouse button.


________________________________________


Filled Rectangle

You use the Filled Rectangle tool to draw a rectangle that is filled with
the current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled rectangle to
appear. Drag the pointer to draw the rectangle, then release the mouse
button. When you release the mouse button, Paint fills the rectangle with
the current pattern.

________________________________________


Rounded Rectangle

You use the Rounded Rectangle tool to draw a round-cornered rectangle using
the current line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the rounded rectangle to
appear. Drag the pointer up, down, to the right, or to the left to draw the
rectangle, then release the mouse button.

________________________________________


Filled Rounded Rectangle

You use the Filled Rounded Rectangle tool to create a round-cornered
rectangle that is filled with the current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled rounded rectangle
to appear. Drag the pointer to draw the rectangle, then release the mouse
button. When you release the mouse button, Paint fills the rectangle with
the current pattern.

________________________________________


Circle

You use the Circle tool to draw a circle using the current line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the circle to appear. Drag the
pointer up, down, to the right, or to the left
to draw the circle, then release the mouse button.

________________________________________


Filled Circle

You use the Filled Circle tool to draw a circle that is filled with the
current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled circle to appear.
Drag the pointer to draw the circle, then release the mouse button. When
you release the mouse button, Paint fills the circle with the current
pattern.

________________________________________


Oval

You use the Oval tool to draw an oval using the current line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the oval to appear. Drag the
pointer up, down, to the right, or to the left to draw the oval, then
release the mouse button.

________________________________________


Filled Oval

You use the Filled Oval tool to draw an oval that is filled with the
current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled oval to appear.
Drag the pointer to draw the oval, then release the mouse button. When you
release the mouse button, Paint fills the oval with the current pattern.

________________________________________


Freehand Shape

You use the Freehand Shape tool to draw a freehand shape using the current
line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the shape to appear. Drag the
pointer to draw lines and curves, then release the mouse button. When you
release the mouse button, Paint closes the shape by connecting the end
points with a straight line.

________________________________________


Filled Freehand Shape

You use the Filled Freehand Shape tool to draw a freehand shape that is
filled using the current pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled shape to appear.
Drag the pointer to draw lines and curves, then release the mouse button.
When you release the mouse button, Paint closes the shape by connecting the
end points with a straight line, and then fills the shape with the current
pattern.

________________________________________


Polygon

You use the Polygon tool to draw a polygon using the current
line width.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the polygon to appear, and
click the mouse button to mark the first corner point. Move the pointer and
click the mouse button to mark the rest of the corner points. Paint
connects the corners with straight lines as you mark them. When you
double-click the last corner point, Paint connects it to the first corner
point to close the polygon.

________________________________________


Filled Polygon

You use this tool to draw a polygon that is filled with the current
pattern.

Move the pointer to the place where you want the filled polygon to appear,
and click the mouse button to mark the first corner point. Move the pointer
and click the mouse button to mark the rest of the corner points. Paint
connects the corners with straight lines as you mark them. When you
double-click the last corner point, Paint connects it to the first corner
point, and then fills the polygon with the current pattern.












































