___________________________________________________________________________

5 Command Summary

This chapter describes the Paint commands that you use to create, enhance,
and edit your drawings. Paint commands are grouped into the menus you see
in the menu bar.

This chapter describes the menus and their commands, in the order in which
they appear in the menu bar.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The File Menu

You use the File menu commands to create, save, and print your drawings.

Note The Open, New, and Exit commands prompt you to save any changes you
made to the current drawing before you proceed.


New

The New command starts a new drawing.

After you choose this command, Paint clears the current drawing from your
screen and displays an empty drawing window. The status of the selected
tool, pattern, brush shape, and line width is unchanged.


Open

The Open command opens a file that contains a drawing you created earlier.

After you choose this command, a dialog box prompts you to either choose a
title from the list box or type the title of the drawing you want. Paint
then displays the drawing on your screen. The status of the selected tool,
pattern, brush shape, and line width is unchanged.


Save

The Save command saves the changes you've made to the current drawing,
under the existing filename.

After you choose this command, a dialog box prompts you for a name, if the
file is untitled. If you have already named the file, Paint stores the
drawing in a file under the name you previously specified.


Save As

The Save As command saves a new drawing, or saves the changes you've made
to the current drawings, under a new filename.

After you choose this command, a dialog box prompts you to type a name for
the current drawing. Paint then stores the drawing in a file under the name
you specified.

Print

The Print command prints the current drawing.

After you choose this command, a dialog box tells you that Paint is sending
your drawing to Spooler. If you want to stop printing your drawing, choose
the Cancel button.

This command is inactive if you have not set up a printer using the Setup
program or Control Panel. See the section called Pre- paring to Draw in
Chapter 1, Getting Started, and the Microsoft Windows User's Guide for
information about adding and setting up printers.

Exit

The Exit command ends your Paint session.

After you choose this command, a dialog box prompts you to save any unsaved
changes that you've made to your drawing. If you choose the Cancel button,
you can continue working on your drawing in the Paint window. If you choose
the Yes button or the No button, Windows ends your Paint session.

About Paint

The About Paint command displays information about the Paint program.

After you choose this command, a dialog box displays the version number and
copyright dates of the Paint program you are using. After you have read
this information, choose the OK button.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Edit Menu

You use the Edit menu commands to edit or modify the current drawing.

Except for Erase, Undo, and Paste (if there is anything on the Clipboard),
all of the Edit menu commands are inactive until you first select the
drawing area you want to edit. Use either the Selection Rectangle tool or
the Selection Net tool to select an area.

Undo

The Undo command cancels the most recent drawing or editing action you
made. Choosing Undo a second time restores the action.


Erase

The Erase command erases the contents of the drawing window.

You can also erase the contents of the drawing window by double-clicking
the Eraser tool.


Cut

The Cut command removes the selected area from the drawing and places it on
the Clipboard. (See the Microsoft Windows User's Guide for information
about Clipboard.)


Note When selecting an area to cut or to copy to the Clipboard, make sure
that its entire contents are visible in the drawing window. If they are
not, you need to scroll the drawing so that the area you wish to cut or
copy is in full view. Otherwise the Cut or Copy command will not include
all the material you want.



Copy

The Copy command copies the selected area to the Clipboard.


Paste

The Paste command copies the Clipboard contents into a selection box in the
drawing window. The objects you paste stay selected (and movable) until you
click outside the selection box, select another area, or select a different
tool.

You can paste the contents of the Clipboard in as many places
in the current drawing as you want.

Note You can also use the Cut and Paste commands to copy your drawing or
parts of your drawing to other Windows applications. Your drawing may
appear differently on the screen or after it is printed, depending upon the
characteristics of the other application.


Clear

The Clear command erases the selected area from the drawing window.


Invert

The Invert command changes the appearance of the selected area: it turns
black objects to white, and white objects to black.

Note The following editing commands require that you use the Selection
Rectangle instead of the Selection Net to select the area you want to
change.


Trace Edges

The Trace Edges command outlines the edges of the selected patterns and
objects. The patterns and objects themselves turn white.


Flip Horizontal

The Flip Horizontal command flips the selected area from left to right,
creating a mirror image of it.


Flip Vertical

The Flip Vertical command flips the selected area from top to bottom,
creating a mirror image of it.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Character Menu

You use the Character menu commands to choose the text type- face. The list
of commands in the Character menu varies according to the fonts installed
on your system disk. The System and Terminal fonts are automatically
installed for you, so they will always appear in the menu. System is the
default font.

You can change the typeface of the text you have just typed until you click
the mouse button again, select another tool, or perform any other Paint or
Windows action.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Size Menu

You use the Size menu commands to set the font size of a piece of text. The
list of commands in the Size menu varies according to the sizes supported
by the font you are using. The sizes supported by the System font are the
default sizes, with 10 being the default setting.

You can change the size of the text you have just typed until you click the
mouse button again, select another tool, or perform any other Paint or
Windows action.

Note Font sizes vary depending on the display adapter you are using. Some
of the sizes shown in the Size menu are grayed if they are not available
for your display adapter in the font you are using. In this case, the text
you type will be displayed in the next larger or smaller available font
size.


________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Style Menu

You use the Style menu commands to modify the appearance of your text.

You can change the style of the text you have just typed until you click
the mouse button again, select another tool, or perform any other Paint or
Windows action.

Normal is the default style.

The following example illustrates the text styles that Paint supports:

   _________________




   _________________

More than one text style may be active at the same time. The following
example shows text that was created using the Bold, Italic, and Underline
text styles:

   _________________
   _________________


Left Aligned

Left Aligned is the default setting. The Left Aligned command aligns lines
of text using an invisible column as the left margin.

Click the text pointer to mark the location of the invisible col- umn. Your
text moves to the right as you type.



Centered

The Centered command centers lines of text evenly on both sides of the
invisible column.

Click the text pointer to mark the location of the invisible col- umn. The
insertion point moves to the right and your text moves to the left as you
type.

Right Aligned

The Right Aligned command aligns lines of text using an invisible column as
the right margin.

Click the text pointer to mark the location of the invisible col- umn. Your
text moves to the left as you type.


The following example illustrates how each of these commands works:

   _________________






   _________________


Opaque

Opaque is the default setting. The Opaque command provides a solid white
background for text.

Transparent

The Transparent command lets the current background pattern show through
text.

________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Palette Menu

You use the Palette menu commands to choose patterns, brush shapes, and
line widths for lines and shapes. Use the Tools command to display the
Tools palette when it is not entirely within the window.

To select an item from a palette, click the item.

To return to the drawing window without changing anything, click the item
that is already selected.

Note To create a filled shape without a line around it, use the top line on
the Line Widths palette together with a Filled Shape tool. This line
appears as a dotted line on the palette, but is invisible in the drawing.


________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Options Menu

You use the Options menu commands to enlarge part of a drawing, to display
the entire drawing in the drawing window, to control the alignment and
placement of the objects in a drawing, and to design your own patterns for
use in the current Paint session.


Zoom In

The Zoom In command zooms in on your drawing at the point where you last
released the mouse button. Zoom In also restores a zoomed-out drawing
window to its normal scale.

When you zoom in on your drawing, a small rectangular box appears in the
upper-left corner of the drawing window. This box shows a view of the area
you are editing at normal scale. In the box, you can see the effects of
turning pixels on and off.

You can also zoom in by double-clicking the Pencil tool in the Tools
palette. Double-clicking the Pencil tool will also restore the drawing
window to its normal scale.

Zoom Out

The Zoom Out command displays the entire drawing, with the current drawing
window outlined. Zoom Out also returns a zoomed-in drawing window to its
normal scale.

You can also zoom out the drawing window by double-clicking the Scroll tool
in the Tools palette. Double-clicking the Scroll tool will also restore the
drawing window to its normal scale.

Note You cannot create new objects or edit an area in a zoomed-out drawing
window.



No Grid

No Grid is the default setting. The No Grid command turns off an active
grid.


Fine Grid, Medium Grid, Coarse Grid

The Grid commands give you more control when you align objects, draw with
the Pencil, or paint with the Brush.

These commands lay an invisible grid on the drawing window. Paint
automatically places the objects you create or move along the grid lines
closest to the pointer. The type of grid you choose determines the distance
between the grid lines. If you choose the Fine Grid command, the lines are
close together. If you choose the Medium Grid or Coarse Grid commands, the
lines are farther apart.

The following example illustrates the differences in the distance between
the grid lines in a fine grid, a medium grid, and a coarse grid.

   _________________





   _________________



Edit Pattern

The Edit Pattern command allows you to design your own pattern.

After you choose this command, a dialog box appears, displaying a pattern
of squares on the left and an enlarged view of the cur- rent pattern on the
right. Click the squares on the left to design
a new pattern.

You can use a pattern you design anytime during a single Paint session, but
each time you start Paint, you will need to re-create the pattern if you
want to use it again.

Hint You may want to make a sketch of the pattern as it appears in the left
side of the dialog box. This will help you remember how you designed the
pattern originally.



For Printer, For Screen

These commands adjust the size of the drawing area to accom- modate either
the printer or the screen.

The For Screen command adjusts the drawing area so that it is the same size
as your full screen. The For Printer command adjusts the drawing area so
that it matches your printer's paper size.

If you plan to print your drawing, choose the For Printer command. If you
don't want to print your drawing, choose the For Screen command. Once you
set this option and begin drawing, you cannot change the setting unless you
restart Paint or begin a new drawing using the New command. See the section
called Preparing to Draw in Chapter 1, Getting Started, for more
information about setting these options.


Low Resolution, High Resolution

These commands adjust the resolution of the drawing area to match the
resolution setting of your printer. This allows you to create drawings with
a large amount of detail.

If you want to create a detailed drawing, choose the High Resolution
command. If you want to create a simple drawing or speed up the printing
process, choose the Low Resolution command. Once you set this option and
begin drawing, you cannot change the setting unless you restart Paint or
begin a new drawing using the New command.

These commands only have an effect if you have set up a printer and chosen
the For Printer command. They have no effect if the For Screen command is
active.















