Gold Disk Inc. ("Gold Disk ") License Agreement for VFW Stream Handler

CAREFULLY READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS BEFORE USING THE
PROGRAMS. USING THE PROGRAMS INDICATES YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS
AND CONDITIONS. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT OR UNDERSTAND THEM, YOU SHOULD
PROMPTLY DELETE PROGRAMS FROM YOUR COMPUTER SYSTEM AND YOUR DISK DRIVE
IMMEDIATELY.

Proprietary Property

The Programs (consisting of the files: AWMFILE.DLL, AWMFILE2.DLL,
AWMFILE3.TSK and AWMFILE.REG), Gold Disk's trade marks, documentation
and other support materials are proprietary to Gold Disk. In addition,
the Programs may contain the proprietary property of others which has
been licensed to Gold Disk. You agree not to remove any product
identification or notices of the proprietary restrictions from Gold
Disk's products or documentation.

Grant of Rights

You may use the Programs for your personal use or in your business or
profession for converting animations created with Gold Disk products to
AVI files.

You may not reverse-engineer or decompile the Programs.

Term

The licence is effective until terminated. You may terminate it at any
time by destroying the Programs together with all copies in any form. It
will also terminate upon conditions set forth elsewhere in this
agreement or if you fail to comply with any term or condition of this
agreement. You agree that upon such termination you will destroy the
Programs together with all copies in any form.

Exclusion of other Warranties

Gold Disk and Gold Disk's licensor(s) make no warranties, express or
implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, regarding the
Programs. Gold Disk and Gold Disk's licensor(s) do not warrant,
guarantee or make any representations regarding the use or the results
of the use of the Programs in terms of its correctness, accuracy,
reliability, currentness or otherwise. The entire risk as to the results
and performance of the Programs is assumed by you. 

Disclaimer

In no event will Gold Disk nor Gold Disk's licensor(s), their respective
directors, officers, employees or agents, be liable to you for any
consequential, incidental, or special damages (including damages for
loss of business profits, business interruptions, loss of business
information, and the like) arising out of the use or inability to use
the Programs even if Gold Disk or Gold Disk's licensor(s) has been
advised of the possibility of such damages. The liability of Gold Disk
and Gold Disk's licensor(s) to you for actual damages from any cause
whatsoever, and regardless of the form of the action (whether in
contract, tort (including negligence), product liability or otherwise),
shall be limited to $5.

General

This agreement will be governed by the laws of the province of Ontario,
Canada.

