___________________________________________________________________________

6 Using Clipboard


________________________________________

In Microsoft Windows, you use Clipboard to hold information being copied or
moved. You can move or copy information from one place in a window to
another. For example, you can move text around in a report as you edit. You
can also move or copy information from one window to another window. For
example, you can copy a paragraph from one report to another report. You
can even move or copy information from one application to another
application. For example, you can move a picture from Windows Paint to a
report in Windows Write.

___________________________________________________________________________
Displaying Clipboard

Clipboard is always available when you are running Windows. Although you
don't have to run a file to use Clipboard, you can run a file to display
the Clipboard contents.


________________________________________
Running Clipboard in a window

Follow this step to display Clipboard:


1 Start CLIPBRD.EXE from the MS-DOS Executive window.

The Clipboard window appears. If the Clipboard is empty, a blank window is
displayed, as shown in the following figure.

   _________________












   _________________


___________________________________________________________________________
Cutting, Copying, and Pasting

To put information on the Clipboard, use the application's Cut or Copy
command. To insert information in your application from the Clipboard, use
the application's Paste command. Most applications require that you first
select the information you want to cut or copy. For more information about
selecting, see the manual for the application you are using.


________________________________________
Transferring information

Though your application may have different names for the Cut, Copy, and
Paste commands, the commands should operate in this way:

o The Cut command deletes the selected information from the window and
  places it on the Clipboard.


o The Copy command makes a copy of the selected information and places it
  on the Clipboard, leaving the selected information in its original
  location.


o The Paste command inserts information from the Clipboard in a selected
  area in a window. If the window contains an insertion point, the
  information appears to the left of the insertion point. If the window
  contains a selection, the information on the Clipboard replaces the
  selection. You can paste the same information from the Clipboard as many
  times as you want.


Note Some standard applications have commands similar to Cut, Copy, and
Paste but don't use Windows Clipboard to transfer information.


The following figure shows information that was copied from
a Notepad file to the Clipboard.

   _________________
















   _________________

The bar below Clipboard's menu bar tells you what kind of information
appears on the Clipboard. In the previous figure, text is on the Clipboard.

Generally, the formatting for your text is not stored on the Clipboard.
However, this can vary from application to application.

___________________________________________________________________________
Quitting Clipboard

Once you've finished viewing the Clipboard contents, you may want to quit
Clipboard.


________________________________________
Exiting from Clipboard

To exit from Clipboard, follow this step:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Close command.

Although Clipboard is no longer running in a window, it con-
tinues to be available while you are working in Windows.
