___________________________________________________________________________

8 Using Spooler


________________________________________

In Microsoft Windows, files are printed by the Spooler program. When you
choose a print command in a Windows application, the application creates a
print-spool file, and Spooler automatically starts to print the file on the
printer.

After Spooler starts, its icon appears on your screen. Spooler works in the
background so that you can continue to work in an application while your
file is being printed.

___________________________________________________________________________
Displaying Spooler in a Window

You can enlarge the Spooler icon to a window to look at the list of files
being printed. The file listing, called the print queue, lists files in the
order they will be printed. The listing also contains information about
your printer, including its port, port status (whether the printer's in
use), and name. If necessary, you can also work in the Spooler window to
interrupt or cancel a print job.

Spooler is used only for Windows applications. On a two-drive system, the
Spooler program is located on the Windows system disk.

For information about setting up your printer, see your printer's manual.
For details on adding or removing a printer and on specifying printer modes
and options, see Chapter 7, Using Control Panel.


________________________________________
Viewing the print queue

To look at the print queue, follow these steps:


1 Select the Spooler icon.


2 Select the icon's Control menu and choose the Restore command. The
  Spooler window appears containing information similar to that shown in
  the following figure.


   _________________

















   _________________


________________________________________

Follow this step to view the print queue with the mouse:


1 Double-click the Spooler icon.

The first file in the list is the one that is currently printing. Spooler
works on one job at a time in the order that the jobs are listed. If the
entire list cannot fit on your screen, the win-
dow will have a vertical scroll bar that you can use to see the remaining
entries.

___________________________________________________________________________
Specifying Printing Speed

You use the Priority menu commands to specify how fast you want to print
your work. These commands change the rate at which information is
transferred from Spooler to the printer ports.


________________________________________
Specifying how fast to print

If you want Spooler to print a job faster, do the following:


1 Select the Priority menu and choose the High command.

This setting uses more of your computer's processor time, causing other
applications to run more slowly.



If you want Spooler to print at a slower speed and free more processor time
for other applications, follow this step:


1 Select the Priority menu and choose the Low command.


A checkmark next to the High or Low command on the Priority menu indicates
the current setting.

___________________________________________________________________________
Halting or Canceling a Print Job

You use the Queue menu commands to temporarily halt or cancel a print job.


________________________________________
Interrupting a print job

Follow these steps to interrupt a print job:


1 Select the filename of the job you want to interrupt by pressing the UP
  or DOWN key or by clicking the filename with the mouse.


2 Select the Queue menu and choose the Pause command. The print-queue
  listing for that job now lists the port status as paused.


________________________________________
Resuming a print job

Do the following to continue printing the file:


1 Select the Queue menu and choose the Resume command.



________________________________________
Canceling a print job

To cancel a print job, follow these steps:


1 Select the filename of the job you want to cancel.


2 Select the Queue menu and choose the Terminate command. A dialog box
  appears asking you to confirm the cancellation.


3 Choose the Yes button.


Warning If you terminate a job that is printing in graphics mode, you may
need to reset your printer to ensure that the buffer is cleared.


___________________________________________________________________________
Spooler Messages


________________________________________
Displaying Spooler messages

Spooler sometimes displays information about the status of your printing
jobs. If Spooler needs to display information, but the Spooler window or
icon is not selected, the title bar or icon will flash. Select Spooler's
window or icon to display the message.

Some of the messages Spooler sends depend on the settings you specify in
Control Panel's Setup menu.  See the section called Setting Up Printers in
Chapter 7, Using Control Panel, for more information.

Note You can print from a Windows application without using Spooler. This
may be preferable when running Windows on a two-drive system since it
conserves disk space. To use this fea-
ture, you need to edit your WIN.INI file. See the section called Settings
in [Windows] in Appendix A, Customizing Your WIN.INI File, for more
information.


___________________________________________________________________________
Quitting Spooler

After the files in the print queue have been printed, you can quit Spooler.
If you quit Spooler while files are still in the print queue, the remaining
print jobs will be terminated.


________________________________________
Exiting from Spooler

To exit from Spooler, do the following:


1 Select the Priority menu and choose the Exit command.

If print jobs remain in the print queue, a dialog box appears asking you to
confirm the cancellation.



























































