___________________________________________________________________________

9 Using Standard Applications

In earlier chapters, you learned to use applications that were designed to
run with Microsoft Windows. This chapter explains how to run applications
that were not designed specifically for Windows; these are known as
standard applications. Applications that run under DOS-such as Microsoft
Multiplan(R), Microsoft Word, Lotus 1-2-3, and MultiMate-can run with
Windows. You'll find that it is faster, easier, and more efficient to work
with your applications when they are run with Windows.

___________________________________________________________________________
Introduction to Standard Applications


Running standard applications from Windows provides several benefits,
including the following:


o You can run several applications simultaneously and switch from one to
  another.


o You can transfer information from a standard application to another
  application.


o Often, you can run your standard application in a window and use
  Control-menu commands to manipulate the application.


Note Windows allows you to run only the applications that normally run on
your computer. In other words, applications written for operating systems
other than DOS (XENIX, for example) will not run with Windows.


How Windows Displays Standard Applications


________________________________________
How standard applications look

When you run standard applications from Windows, they are displayed on the
screen in one of two ways: in a window or full-screen. An application that
runs in a window looks similar to Windows applications and has many Windows
features, including a Control menu and a title bar. These applications are
described in more detail in the following section. A full-screen
application looks much the same as when you run it without Windows.
(Generally, standard applications that display graphics are displayed
full-screen.) Details on these applications are given in the section called
Using Full-Screen Applications later in this chapter.

The way an application appears on the screen is determined by the amount of
computer memory that has been reserved for it, the way it uses system
resources and hardware, and the way it has been set up to run. Some
applications can run either in a window or full-screen, while others can
run only full-screen.

Using Applications That Run in a Window



________________________________________
Applications that run in a window

There are many applications that can run in a window.

   _________________















   _________________

If your application has any of the following features, it probably can run
in a window:


o The application can be set up to run with Windows, TopView, or an
  American National Standards Institute (ANSI) device driver. Check your
  application's installation instructions for information on this feature.


o The application software includes a TopView PIF file that allows the
  application to run in a TopView window.


o The application displays text by using standard DOS, ROM BIOS (read-only
  memory/basic input and output system), or ANSI call conventions. This
  feature may be difficult to determine. If you don't know this
  information, base your decision on the two previously listed features.


If your application has none of the above features, you may need to
experiment to determine whether or not it runs in a window. The section
called Determining Whether an Application Can Run in a Window later in this
chapter gives details on how to do this.

When a standard application runs in a window, it has a title bar and a
Control menu, just like Windows applications do. However, Windows adds
several commands to your standard application's Control menu; this is
described in the section called Transferring Information later in this
chapter.

Standard applications that run in a window can also be run full-screen.
Full-screen applications are described in the following section.

Note When you use the Minimize command or box to shrink a standard
application that is running in a window, you see an icon for the
application, just like you do for a Windows application. The icon is a
rectangle that contains an abbreviation of the application's name.


   _________________







   _________________


Using Applications That Run Full-Screen


________________________________________
Full-screen applications

Some standard applications must be run full-screen. Applications that
display graphics on the screen, or those that have direct access to the
part of memory that is used by the screen, cannot be run in a window.

When an application is running full-screen, Windows temporarily removes
itself from the screen. When you switch to another application, the full-
screen application becomes an icon. Moving from one application to another
is described in the section called Moving Between Applications later in
this chapter.

When you run a full-screen application, all other applications, including
Windows applications, suspend operation. They resume operation when you
quit the full-screen application or shrink it to an icon.

   _________________



















   _________________


Using Memory-Resident Applications


________________________________________
Memory-resident applications

Memory-resident applications are programs such as network servers, pop-up
applications, expanded-memory managers, and disk-caching programs such as
SMARTDrive. Most memory-resident applications are special programs that
extend the power of your computer and add-on cards. They work silently and
require no interaction with the user. Pop-up programs, such as Sidekick,
are memory-resident applications that let you enter, view, and process
information. These programs temporarily suspend your current application
while you work with them, then let you return to the suspended application.

If you want to use memory-resident applications, you must start them before
you start Windows. Once started, memory-resident applications are always
ready for use when you or DOS need them. However, if your memory-resident
application is a pop-up program, you may not be able to use it while
Windows applications are on the screen. You can, however, use the
application while running full-screen standard applications.

Windows Desktop applications provide many of the features found in popular
pop-up programs. You should consider using the Desktop applications instead
of the pop-ups. If you do decide to run pop-ups, be aware that some of them
may not run properly with Windows because they were not designed especially
for Windows.

Using Program Information Files


________________________________________
Using PIF files

Because standard applications were not written for Windows, they require
program information (PIF) files to run with Windows. PIF files supply
information to Windows about how an application uses the screen, system
memory, and other computer resources. For example, Windows uses PIF files
to learn how much memory an application needs. You can recognize PIF files
by their .PIF extension. For information on creating and editing PIF files,
see Chapter 10, Using PIF Editor.

If there is no PIF file for an application, Windows uses a set of default
program characteristics to run the application. However, you are encouraged
to use PIF files with your standard applications because a PIF file allows
you to run the application in the most efficient way. A PIF file may also
give your application more capabilities than it is given when you rely on
the default PIF settings. For example, using the default settings prevents
you from switching to other applications unless you first exit from the
application you are running.


________________________________________
Running standard applications from PIF files

You can start an application by running its PIF file; this process is
described in the section called Starting an Application from a PIF File
later in this chapter. Windows runs the application named in the file and
uses the resource settings listed there. A number of PIF files for popular
applications are provided on your Windows disks. You may also find that
your standard application's disk includes a PIF file.

You can create more than one PIF file for an application so that you can
run it in different ways at different times. For example, when you start
Microsoft Multiplan to work on business, you may want to be in a directory
you've set up for business data. When you start Multiplan to work on
personal data, you may want to be in another directory. You can set up
Multiplan to run both ways by creating two different PIF files for starting
the program, for example, MPWORK.PIF and MPHOME.PIF. Each PIF file starts
the same Multiplan program, but the first PIF file opens the pro-
gram in the MPWORK directory and the second opens it in the MPHOME
directory.


________________________________________
Running standard applications from batch files

If you run a standard application from a batch file, you should create an
additional PIF file for the batch file. Set the options in the batch PIF
file to match those in the application PIF file, and give the PIF file the
same base filename as the batch filename (the PIF file will have the .PIF
extension).

Occasionally when you are using a batch file to run an application, Windows
displays a message saying Not enough memory to run. This may occur because
the application's PIF file does not specify enough memory to run both the
batch file and the application. To correct this, increase the amounts
specified in the KB Required and KB Desired text boxes in the PIF file to
allow adequate memory to run both files.

___________________________________________________________________________
Starting Standard Applications

There are two ways to start a standard application. You can run the
application's PIF file, or you can run the application file (a file with a
.EXE, .COM, or .BAT extension). In both cases, you run the file from the
MS-DOS Executive window.

Whenever possible, you should use PIF files to start your standard
applications, then you can take advantage of the preset options that make
your application run more efficiently. In some cases, you may want to have
more than one PIF file for an application, each with different options
selected. In such cases in particular, you should use the desired PIF file
to start the application. (If you use the application file, Windows by
default uses the PIF file with the same base filename and runs your
application using those options. These may not be the options you want to
use at that time.)

If you start an application from a PIF file, the PIF file must be in the
same directory as the application, or the application must be in a
directory listed in the PATH variable in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file. As an
alternative, you can list the full pathname of the application in the PIF
file. See Chapter 10, Using PIF Editor, for details on changing your PIF
file.

Starting an Application from a PIF File



________________________________________
Starting applications from PIF files

To use a PIF file to start your application, follow these steps:


1 Move to the directory that contains the PIF file. For PIF files supplied
  with Windows, this is the PIF directory; it is created when you install
  Windows.


2 Copy the PIF file to your standard application's startup disk or
  directory, or make sure the directory containing the appli-
  cation file is in your PATH variable.


3 Select the PIF file and press the ENTER key or, with the mouse, double-
  click the filename.


Starting an Application by Using Its Filename

If you start the application by using its filename, you must first be sure
that any related PIF file has the same base filename so that Windows can
locate it. For example, if you use the file named DBASE.COM to start dBASE
II, the associated PIF file must be DBASE.PIF.


________________________________________
Starting applications by using their filenames

Follow this step to start an application by using its filename:


1 Select the application filename and press the ENTER key or, with the
  mouse, double-click the filename.


Note An application may have more than one .EXE or .COM file on its disk.
You should have a separate PIF file for each one.


Determining Whether an Application
Can Run in a Window

You can determine whether a standard application can run in a window by
editing the application's PIF file and then running the application.

Before trying the following procedure, you should close all other
applications, including Windows applications. Then if your application
doesn't run in a window and you have to quit Windows temporarily, you will
not lose any information from other appli-
cations.


________________________________________
Checking for window capabilities

You can check to see if your application can run in a window by following
these steps:


1 Turn off the Directly Modifies Screen check box in the application's PIF
  file. (For information on setting options in
  the PIF file, see Chapter 10, Using PIF Editor.)


2 Run the application.

If the application displays information outside the window, it cannot run
in a window.



________________________________________
Returning to Windows

If the application does not run in a window, you can return to Windows and
correct the PIF file by doing the following:


1 Quit the standard application using its quit or exit command.


2 Quit Windows and then restart it.


3 Turn on the Directly Modifies Screen check box in the PIF file.


Displaying the Control Menu

If your standard application is running in a window, Windows adds commands
to the Control menu, for example, the Mark, Copy, Paste, and Scroll
commands. The other Control-menu commands allow you to manipulate the
standard application's window, just as they do for Windows applications.

   _________________


   _________________


Even though your application is running full-screen, it may have a Control
menu (this usually is true for an application that allows you to switch to
other programs without quitting the application).


________________________________________
Checking for a Control menu

To see if your full-screen application has a Control menu, follow this
step:


1 Press ALT, SPACEBAR.

If a full-screen application has a Control menu, you can shrink the
application to an icon by choosing the Minimize command from the menu.

In standard applications, the Control menu contains commands for
transferring information between applications (Mark, Copy, Paste), in
addition to the Close command for closing the window. These commands are
described in the sections called Transferring Information and Quitting
Standard Applications later in this chapter.

Note You can use the direct-access method to choose commands from a menu in
a full-screen standard application, just as you can with applications that
run in a window. The direct-access method lets you choose a command by
pressing the key that corresponds to the underlined character in the menu-
command name. In full-screen applications, however, the character may not
be underlined; the appearance of the character is determined by the display
device you are using.


___________________________________________________________________________
Moving Between Applications

To switch from one standard application to another (or to a Windows
application), you can usually follow the regular Windows procedures.


________________________________________
Switching from a full-screen application

If you switch from a full-screen application to another full-screen
application, the new application's screen is displayed. If you switch to an
application that runs in a window, the application's window or icon is
brought to the front of the screen and becomes active. The full-screen
application you just left is represented by an icon on the screen and
suspends operation until you return to it.

Some full-screen standard applications may not allow you to switch to any
other applications until you exit from the application. In this case, the
system sounds a warning beep, and the application remains on your screen.
When you exit from the application, you return to the Windows screen. You
can then switch to the other applications.


________________________________________
Switching from an application that runs in a window

If you are working in an application that runs in a window, you switch to a
full-screen application by following these steps:


1 Press ALT+ESCAPE. If you're using the mouse, you can click the window or
  icon (you may need to do this several times). This selects the full-
  screen application's icon, and the application name is displayed.


2 Press ALT, SPACEBAR (or click the icon with the mouse) to display the
  icon's Control menu.


3 Choose the Maximize or Restore command.


________________________________________
Using ALT+TAB

You can also switch between applications by pressing ALT+TAB. When you
release ALT+TAB, the application window or screen is restored.

Note If you are using a two-drive system and want to keep your data files
on separate disks, be sure that the correct data disk is in the drive when
you switch programs.


___________________________________________________________________________
Transferring Information

There are two ways to copy information between applications: you can
transfer a complete screenful of information from an application, or you
can transfer portions of information.

Information that you are transferring is stored on the Windows
Clipboard. For information on Clipboard, see Chapter 6, Using Clipboard.

Copying an Entire Screen


________________________________________
Copying a screenful of information

To copy the entire screen from a standard application to the Clipboard,
follow these steps:


1 Make sure that the information you want to copy is on the screen.


2 Press ALT+PRINTSCREEN.

This takes a snapshot of the screen. The information is now available on
the Clipboard and can be transferred to Windows applications.


If you are unable to capture a graphics screen by pressing ALT+PRINTSCREEN,
it may be for one of the following reasons:


o In the application's PIF file, the Graphics/Text option in the Screen
  Exchange section is not selected. This option must be selected to reserve
  space in memory for storing the screen image.


o If you are trying to copy from a medium-resolution or high-resolution
  screen, the memory required to store the screen image may be too large
  for the image to be transferred.

You can experiment to see if your screen can be transferred to the
Clipboard. If it cannot be transferred, you will hear a beep when you press
ALT+PRINTSCREEN.

Copying Partial Screens

To transfer selected parts of the screen, use the Mark, Copy, and Paste
commands from the Control menu.


Using the Mark Command

You use the Mark command to select information on the screen so that you
can copy it to the Clipboard.


________________________________________
Selecting information

Follow these steps to select information for copying:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Mark command. A rectangular cursor
  appears at the upper-left corner of the window.


2 Press the DIRECTION keys to move the cursor to the begin-
  ning of the information you want to select. Press and hold down the SHIFT
  key, then use the DIRECTION keys to select the
  information.

  For example, to select a paragraph, move the cursor to the first
  character of the paragraph. Press and hold down the SHIFT key. Use the
  RIGHT key to go to the end of the line, then use the DOWN key to go to
  the last line of the paragraph.


3 Release the SHIFT key.


   _________________















   _________________


________________________________________

Follow these steps to select information with the mouse:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Mark command. A rectangular cursor
  appears at the upper-left corner of the window.


2 Drag the cursor across the information that you want to select.


3 Release the mouse button.


Note You cannot use the mouse to select information in a full-screen
application. You must use the keyboard.


________________________________________
Canceling a section

To cancel the selection, follow this step:


1 Press the ESCAPE key or, with the mouse, click outside the selected area.


Using the Copy Command


________________________________________
Copying information

After you've selected the information, you can copy it to the Clipboard by
following this step:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Copy command.


Using the Paste Command

You use the Paste command to transfer compatible information from the
Clipboard to another application or to another place in the same
application. You can paste text onto a full-screen standard application.
However, you cannot paste graphics onto any standard applications.

If an application has more than one mode, it must be in its text-entry mode
in order for text to be pasted onto it. For example, it is common for
word-processing applications to have a text-entry mode for typing text, and
a command mode for controlling format or insertion-point movement. You
should change to the text-entry mode before pasting text onto such an
application.


________________________________________
Pasting information

To paste information from the Clipboard, follow these steps:


1 Move the application's insertion point to the area where you want to
  insert the information.


2 Select the Control menu and choose the Paste command.

If you paste formatted text, the text will transfer but not the formatting.

   _________________



   _________________



   _________________


















   _________________


___________________________________________________________________________
Scrolling the Window

In addition to the Mark, Copy, and Paste commands that Windows adds to a
standard application's Control menu, Windows may also add the Scroll
command.

When a standard application is running in a window, Windows acts as a kind
of viewer, displaying information inside the window which would normally
fill the whole screen. As a result, you may not be able to see all the
information, especially if the application is sharing the screen with
several other windows. You can use the Scroll command to move the
information in the window so that you can see other parts of the file.

The Control menu's Scroll command is independent of com-
mands your application may have for scrolling information. The application
may have additional scrolling commands or keys for moving to other parts of
a file. See the application's manual for this information.


________________________________________
Scrolling through a file

To scroll a window, follow these steps:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Scroll command.


2 Use the keys described in the following list to scroll in the desired
  direction.


Press these keys to scroll through a file:



To scroll   Press
___________________________________________________________________________


Up one      UP
line

Down one    DOWN
line

Left one    LEFT
character

Right one   RIGHT
character

Up one      PAGE UP
screen

Down one    PAGE DOWN
screen

To the      HOME
beginning
of a line

To the end  END
of a line

To stop scrolling, follow this step:


1 Press the ESCAPE key or the ENTER key.


________________________________________

To scroll with the mouse, you can use the window's scroll bars. See Chapter
4, Techniques, for details.

___________________________________________________________________________
Running Multiple Applications

With Windows, you can run as many applications at the same time as your
system will allow. In addition, if you have a hard disk or a memory-
expansion card, Windows can run more standard applications than can fit in
memory.


________________________________________
Swapping applications

If you try to start a standard application and your system doesn't have
enough memory, Windows tries to share available memory by temporarily
moving another application (and even parts of Windows itself) to the hard
disk. This is referred to as swapping.  When you switch to the application
that was swapped, Windows moves another application out of memory and
brings the selected application back into memory.

Windows can also swap applications to expanded memory. To use this feature,
your expanded-memory manager must support Windows 2.0. You must also edit
the [pif] section in your WIN.INI file so that the /E option is specified
in the swapdisk= entry. See Appendix A, Customizing Your WIN.INI File, and
Appendix E, Special Notes on Using Windows, for more information on using
expanded memory.

To run multiple applications efficiently, run the largest application
first, or specify the size of the swap area in the WIN.INI file. See
Appendix A, Customizing Your WIN.INI File, for details.

When your system has low memory, Windows may excessively swap information
from your disk, causing your system to run more slowly than normal. When
this occurs, it is recommended that you close any applications that you do
not need. This will give Windows more memory to manage your remaining
appli- cations.

If you try to run a standard application and Windows displays a message
that there is not enough memory, try closing some of the applications you
are running, then try to run the program again. You could also choose to
reset the KB Required and KB Desired options in the PIF file, as described
in the next section.

___________________________________________________________________________
Running Large Standard Applications


________________________________________
Freeing up memory

Occasionally, you may want to run a standard application that requires more
memory than is available when Windows is running. When you try to run such
an application, Windows displays a message saying Not enough memory to run.
You can free up more memory to run the application by ensuring that Windows
automatically swaps out unused parts of itself when you start the
application. You can choose between two methods to do this:


o Set the KB Desired amount in the application's PIF file to 1. When you
  run the application, Windows automatically frees up additional memory for
  the application by swapping out unused parts of Windows and any Windows
  applications; swapping will not occur if the application uses a
  communications (COM) port.


o Set the Directly Modifies Memory option in the application's PIF file,
  then close all Windows programs except MS-DOS
  Executive and run the application. Windows swaps out unused parts of
  itself and gives the application most of the available memory. A small
  amount of memory is reserved for transferring information to the
  Clipboard. When you are finished using the application, you must quit the
  application to return to Windows. When you quit the application, the
  Windows screen returns.


Note There may be other cases when you will see the message saying Not
enough memory to run. For a list of these cases and corrective actions you
can take, see the section called Not Enough Memory to Run in Appendix B,
System Messages.

If your application runs in a window, you can set the amount of memory
without using a PIF file. To do this, create an entry in the [pif] section
of the WIN.INI file, as described in the section called Settings in [Pif]
in Appendix A, Customizing Your WIN.INI File.


___________________________________________________________________________
Quitting Standard Applications

To quit a standard application, you use the application's quit or exit
command. Normally when you quit an application, it is removed from your
screen. However in some cases, information is left on the screen. If the
application was running in a window, parentheses surround the application's
name in the title bar.


________________________________________
Exiting from standard applications

To remove the information from the screen, follow this step:


1 Select the Control menu and choose the Close command.


Note When closing COMMAND.COM, you must first exit from the program by
typing exit in the command line. Then you can close the window by using the
Control menu's Close command.






















































