___________________________________________________________________________

Welcome

Microsoft(R) Windows is an extension of the DOS operating system. Windows
allows you to integrate the different tasks you perform on your personal
computer, increasing your efficiency.


________________________________________
Windows is powerful

With Windows, you can work with several programs at once. You can switch
between programs with a couple of keystrokes or a click of a mouse,
reducing the time required to move from one application to another. And
since you never have to quit a program, you can continue from where you
left off.


________________________________________
Windows is versatile

Windows provides an easy way to transfer information between applications.
You can transfer text and even graphics between applications designed
especially for Windows. You can also trans-
fer information to your Windows applications from your standard DOS
applications, such as Microsoft Word and Multiplan(R).

___________________________________________________________________________
About Windows

With Windows, you can run several different applications at once, and
switch from one to another without quitting any of them. Microsoft Windows
gives you a new and more visual way of working by organizing your work in
windows-rectangular areas on your screen in which you use applications.
Many standard applications and all Windows applications can appear in
windows on the screen at the same time.

   _________________
















   _________________

Windows provides an easy method for running your applications, including
drop-down menus, icons, and the choice of using your keyboard, a mouse, or
both together.

   _________________




   _________________

Windows provides several useful Desktop applications.

   _________________
















   _________________

Windows makes it easy to combine information from several applications. You
can work in one application,

   _________________
















   _________________

then you can open another application and work in it,

   _________________
















   _________________

and finally, you can integrate the information from one application into
the other.

   _________________
















   _________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The Microsoft Windows Package


________________________________________
What's in the Microsoft Windows package?

The Microsoft Windows package includes the following items:


o The Microsoft Windows Setup disk


o The Microsoft Windows Build disk


o Microsoft Windows Displays disk


o The Microsoft Windows Utilities disk(s), which contain printer device
  drivers


o The Microsoft Windows Fonts disk(s), which contain font files for a
  variety of printers and graphics adapters


o The Microsoft Windows Desktop Applications disk, which contains Windows
  applications


o The Microsoft Windows Write Program disk, which contains the Windows
  Write writing program files


o The Microsoft Windows User's Guide


o The Microsoft Windows Desktop Applications User's Guide


o The Microsoft Windows Paint User's Guide


o The Microsoft Windows Write User's Guide


o The Microsoft Windows Quick Reference Guide

Program information (PIF) files for a number of DOS applications are
included on your Windows disks.

Note The number and names of disks included in your Windows package may
vary depending on the type of disk drives on your computer.


___________________________________________________________________________
What You Need


________________________________________
What you need to use Microsoft Windows

To use Microsoft Windows, you need the following:


o A personal computer running the DOS operating system with two double-
  sided disk drives or a hard disk (recommended)


o At least 512 kilobytes (K) of memory (to run multiple applications, 640K
  of memory is recommended)


o DOS 2.0 or later version


o A monochrome graphics monitor or color monitor


o A graphics adapter card. Windows supports many different graphics adapter
  cards; however, not all graphics adapter cards display Windows in color.
  For example, the IBM Color Graphics Adapter (CGA) card does not display
  color in the high-resolution mode required for Windows.


________________________________________
Using pointing
devices and
printers

Windows supports a number of optional pointing devices (including the
Microsoft Serial Mouse and Bus Mouse) and printers. The Setup program will
list the available options. See the hardware manual for your device for
instructions on how to install it on your microcomputer.




________________________________________
Using the README.TXT file


Note Be sure to read the README.TXT file on the Microsoft Windows Write
Program disk. README.TXT contains updated Windows information unavailable
in this guide.


___________________________________________________________________________
About This Guide

This guide is designed to help you explore and use Microsoft Windows. The
following list outlines the chapters in this guide and their contents.


  ________________________________________
  Chapter outline


o Chapter 1, Getting Started, tells you how to set up and start Windows on
  your computer. This chapter also explains the parts of a window, and
  gives you some basic pointers on using a mouse.


o Chapter 2, Learning Windows, gives you a step-by-step, hands-on
  introduction to using Windows with the keyboard.


o Chapter 3, Learning Windows with the Mouse, gives you a step-by-step,
  hands-on introduction to using Windows with the mouse.


o Chapter 4, Techniques, outlines the way Windows functions and describes
  the basic techniques you'll use in working with Windows.


o Chapter 5, Using MS-DOS Executive, describes how you can work in the MS-
  DOS Executive window to run applications; copy, print, or delete files;
  create directories; make a Windows system disk; and have access to other
  DOS commands.


o Chapter 6, Using Clipboard, explains how Clipboard lets you move or copy
  information within an application or between applications.


o Chapter 7, Using Control Panel, provides information on how you can use
  Control Panel to adjust Windows system settings such as date and time,
  printer assignments, and screen colors.


o Chapter 8, Using Spooler, describes how Spooler allows you to print files
  and to view and control the jobs in the print queue.


o Chapter 9, Using Standard Applications, provides information on how to
  run applications that were not designed specifically for Windows, such as
  Microsoft Word and Lotus 1-2-3.


o Chapter 10, Using PIF Editor, describes how to use PIF Editor to create
  or revise program information (PIF) files so that you can run standard
  applications with Windows in the most efficient way.


o Chapter 11, Commands, describes some of the commands you'll use most
  often in working with Windows.


o Appendix A, Customizing Your WIN.INI File, explains how to work directly
  in your WIN.INI file to change system settings.


o Appendix B, System Messages, lists the messages that may appear in the
  middle of your window to indicate that Windows is having a problem in
  carrying out a specific action. A diagno-
  sis of each message is given along with suggestions for solving the
  problem.


o Appendix C, Speeding Up Windows with SMARTDrive, describes how to use the
  SMARTDrive disk-caching program with your computer's expanded or extended
  memory to help Windows work more efficiently.


o Appendix D, Using Special Characters, provides information on how to use
  special characters such as fractions, accented letters, or foreign
  currency symbols in the documents you create with Windows.


o Appendix E, Special Notes on Running Windows, contains additional
  information on using certain hardware and standard applications, expanded
  memory, the CHKDSK program, and SHIFT+PRINTSCREEN with Windows.


o Terms contains definitions of some of the Windows, DOS, and general
  computer terms used in this guide.


Notational Conventions


________________________________________
Understanding terms and typography

Here are a few notes about the terms and typographic conventions used in
this manual.

Keynames

The names of keys are spelled out in this guide (for example, ESCAPE,
ENTER, CONTROL) and appear in small capital letters. On your keyboard the
key caps may abbreviate the names or represent them a little differently.

Key Combinations and Sequences

A plus sign (+) used between two keynames indicates that those keys must be
pressed at the same time. For example, Press ALT+ESCAPE means that you
should press the ALT key and hold it down while you press the ESCAPE key
and release it. Then release the ALT key.

A comma between two keynames indicates that those keys must be pressed
sequentially. For example, Press ALT, SPACEBAR means that you should press
the ALT key and release it, then press the SPACEBAR and release it.

DIRECTION Keys

The DIRECTION keys are the four arrow keys on your computer's keypad. The
name of the individual DIRECTION key refers to the direction the arrow
points: the UP key, the DOWN key, the RIGHT key, or the LEFT key. You use
the DIRECTION keys to move the selection, the pointer, or the insertion
point on your screen.

What You Type

In this guide, anything that you should type verbatim is printed in italic.
For example, in a procedure, if you're asked to type a file called
MYLIST.TXT, what you actually type is shown in italic: mylist.txt. (This
filename is also shown in lowercase letters since it doesn't matter whether
you type the letters in capitals or not.)

Syntax Statements

In later chapters you'll find examples of syntax statements, which show you
the format to use when you type a particular command line. There are two
kinds of information in a syntax statement, and they're printed in this
guide in two kinds of type. Everything that's literal-that is, exactly as
you would use it in a specific command -is printed in italic. Everything
that is a placeholder-a generic word where a specific word would appear in
an actual command line (for example, the word filename instead of an
actual, speci-
fic filename)-is printed in bold.

c: \directory\memo.txt

The preceding example designates a pathname for the MEMO.TXT file on a
hard-disk drive (C:). Since directory is in bold, you would need to provide
your own name for the directory that you want the MEMO.TXT file to be in;
everything else is in italic, so you would type it literally.

________________________________________


Mouse Procedures

In this guide, the mouse procedure for a particular task follows the
keyboard procedure. Mouse procedures are generally indicated by a mouse
icon that appears in the margin.

Terms

Many of the Windows, DOS, and general computer terms used in this guide are
defined in Terms, which follows the appendixes.



































