___________________________________________________________________________

10 Using PIF Editor


________________________________________

As you learned in the previous chapter, program information (PIF) files are
the files that tell Microsoft Windows how to run standard applications in
the most efficient way. To create or revise PIF files, you use PIF Editor.
For example, you might use PIF Editor to change the program settings in
your application's PIF file to give the application more of the machine's
available memory.

This chapter explains how to use PIF Editor. For information on using PIF
files with your standard applications, see Chapter 9, Using Standard
Applications.

___________________________________________________________________________
Creating a PIF File

In some cases, your application will not have a PIF file and you will need
to create one. (Be sure to check the PIF directory to see if Windows has
supplied a PIF file for your application.)


________________________________________
Creating PIF files

To create a new PIF file, follow these steps:


1 Start PIF Editor by running the PIFEDIT.EXE file from the MS-DOS
  Executive window. (The PIFEDIT.EXE program may be located in the PIF
  directory.) Your PIF Editor screen will look something like the following
  one.

     _________________












     _________________



2 Type the application's filename in the Program Name text box. Include the
  original extension (.exe, .com, or .bat). If the application is in a
  subdirectory, type the full pathname including the drive letter, or make
  sure the directory is listed in your PATH variable.


3 Select the options or values that apply to the program. (For more
  information, see the section called PIF File Options later in this
  chapter.)


4 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save the new PIF
  file.

To create another PIF file, do the following:


1 Select the File menu and choose the New command. This resets the PIF
  Editor screen.


___________________________________________________________________________
Editing a PIF File


________________________________________
Changing information in PIF files

Usually you will not need to change the information in your PIF files
unless you want to change the settings for a particular program. The
following is a partial list of situations that would require editing an
application's PIF file:


o You want to set up an application to run in a window.


o You want to give an application the maximum amount of available memory on
  your machine.


o An application is not running as expected. You want to increase the
  memory requirements to see if the program will run better.


o You want to free up more memory for running a large application by having
  Windows swap unused parts of the Windows program to the hard disk when
  the application is started.


o Your application is located in a subdirectory and the PIF file supplied
  for the application does not list the full pathname of the program. You
  need to change the pathname listed in the Program Name text box.


o You want to specify a program parameter or change the default directory
  that contains your application's data files.


Editing procedures for some of these situations are listed in the section
called Situations Requiring PIF File Changes at the end of this chapter.

Before editing a PIF file, it is a good idea to make a backup copy of the
original. If your edited file does not run as expected, you can go back to
the original and start over.


________________________________________
Editing a PIF file


To edit a PIF file, follow these steps:


1 Start PIF Editor by running the PIFEDIT.EXE program from the MS-DOS
  Executive window. (The PIFEDIT.EXE program may be located in the PIF
  directory.)


2 Select the File menu and choose the Open command. You will see a dialog
  box listing the available PIF files.


3 Select the filename or type it in the text box, then choose the Open
  button or press the ENTER key. If the filename is not listed, type the
  full pathname of the file in the text box. To open the file with a mouse,
  double-click the filename.


4 Change the options.


5 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save your changes.


PIF File Options

The following sections describe the entries in a PIF Editor
window.


________________________________________
Program information

About the Program  There are four entries for information about your
application program:


o Program Name. Type the application's pathname, including the filename
  extension-for example, a:dbase.com.


o Program Title. Type a descriptive name that will appear in the window's
  title bar when you select the program's icon-for example, IBM Writing
  Assistant.


o Program Parameters. Type any parameters your program might need. These
  are the same parameters you would type after the application's filename
  when starting the program from outside Windows. For example, to run
  Microsoft Word in text mode, type /c.

  If you want Windows to prompt you for parameters, type ?. When you try to
  run or load the application from the MS-DOS Executive window, you will be
  prompted for the parameters. Parameters can be filenames, letters,
  numbers, or any type of information up to 62 characters. If your
  application requires no parameters, or if you are uncertain, leave this
  option blank. (You cannot use this entry to redirect I/O or to do
  piping.)


o Initial Directory. Type the drive and directory you want Windows to go to
  when the application is started. This is usually the location of the
  application's data files.

  Some programs require that certain files used by the program be located
  in the default directory. You should specify an initial directory for
  these programs to make certain the program can find the files.



________________________________________
Memory information

Memory Requirements  These two items describe the memory your application
needs:


o KB Required. Type the minimum amount of memory in kilobytes (KB) that
  your application requires. Check the system requirements of your
  application. If you don't know how much is required, leave the default
  setting.

  If Windows cannot provide the specified amount of memory, and you are
  running other applications, you will see the message, Not enough memory
  to run. You may need to close some applications before continuing.

  If you have a hard disk, you may be able to free up additional memory by
  having Windows swap, or remove itself, temporarily from memory. See the
  section called Situations Requiring PIF File Changes at the end of this
  chapter for more information on freeing memory.


o KB Desired. Type the maximum amount of memory your program can use. Some
  applications run more efficiently if more than minimal memory is
  provided.

  If you leave this entry blank or type zero, Windows will allocate all
  available memory to the application.

  If you enter -1 in this field and the application is set up to run full-
  screen, Windows will attempt to swap itself to the hard disk to make room
  to run the application. (If any application is running that uses a
  communications port, Windows will not be able to swap the application or
  itself.)


Note Some utility programs that check available memory may not provide
correct results when run from Windows. For example, DISKCOMP may give you
the message Not enough memory to run when in fact, there is plenty of
memory. If you see this message, close some applications and try again, or
run the utility program from outside Windows.


________________________________________
System-resource information

Directly Modifies  Many applications use system resources in ways that
cannot be shared with other programs. In the following group, select any
options that apply to your application:


o Screen. Turn on this check box if the application writes directly to the
  screen buffer (video memory). Applications that display graphics are in
  this category. Such applications cannot be run in a window. Selecting
  this option will run the application full-screen. If you are uncertain,
  select this option.


o Keyboard. Turn on this check box if your application uses the keyboard
  buffer. The keyboard buffer is the area where key-
  strokes are saved until they are processed.

  Selecting this option prevents the application from running in a window
  or switching back to Windows when you press ALT+ESCAPE. This option also
  prevents you from using Control menu's Mark, Copy, and Paste commands. If
  you are uncertain, do not select this option.


o COM1. Turn on this check box if your application uses serial
  communications port 1 (COM1). If you select this box, Windows cannot run
  any other application that uses COM1 until you quit the first
  application. This prevents two applications from trying to use the same
  communications port at the same time.

  Selecting this option also prevents the application from being swapped to
  the hard disk. Some programs must remain in memory at all times.
  Generally, you need to select this option only if you are running a
  communications application.


o COM2. Turn on this check box if your application uses serial
  communications port 2 (COM2). If you select this box, Windows cannot run
  any other application that uses COM2 until you quit the first
  application. This prevents two applications from trying to use the same
  communications port at the same time.

  Selecting this option also prevents the application from being swapped to
  the hard disk. Some programs must remain in memory at all times.
  Generally, you need to select this option only if you are running a
  communications application.


o Memory. Turn on this check box if your application uses a memory-resident
  application (for example, Sidekick). These programs usually load and
  remain in memory, and are acti-vated
  while other applications are running. If you are uncer-tain,
  do not select this box. For more information on this type of application,
  see the section called Using Memory-Resident Applications in Chapter 9,
  Using Standard Applications.

  You may wish to set this option in order to run a very large standard
  application. The option causes Windows to remove itself temporarily from
  memory to make room to run the program. To return to Windows, you must
  quit the application.

  Selecting this option prevents data transfer to or from your application.
  You must close this application before switching to another.



________________________________________
Switching applications

Program Switch  If your application is running full-screen, the following
options determine whether you can switch back to Windows by pressing
ALT+ESCAPE. If you are uncertain which option to choose, choose Text.


o Prevent. Select this option to conserve memory for the application, or if
  you find that Windows does not switch correctly. If you select this
  option, you must quit the application to return to Windows.


o Text. Select this option if your application works in text mode only, or
  if it runs in text and graphics modes and you want to conserve memory.
  Windows will reserve four kilobytes to save the screen image.

  If you select this option, you will be able to switch back to Windows
  only when the application is in text mode. If the application is in
  graphics mode, you must quit the program to return to Windows; Windows
  will beep when you press ALT+ESCAPE.


o Graphics/Multiple Text. Select this option if your application works in
  graphics mode. If you select this option, Windows allocates extra memory
  (1636K) for you to switch back to Windows when the application is in text
  or graphics mode.


You may not be able to switch from a standard application that uses high-
resolution color modes because of the extensive memory that is required.


________________________________________
Exchanging data using Clipboard

Screen Exchange  These options let you specify the kind of data exchange
(text or graphics) between Clipboard and applications that require
exclusive access to the screen. As described in the section called
Transferring Information in Chapter 9, Using Standard Applications, you
press ALT+PRINTSCREEN to put snap-
shots of the screen on the Clipboard. This copies the entire screen and
requires Windows to reserve memory to save the screen image. Text screens
do not usually require much memory (two kilobytes). However, low-resolution
graphics screens generally require up to 32K of memory. You should keep
this in mind as you select options. If you are uncertain, choose Text.

You cannot take a snapshot of a high-resolution color screen because of the
extensive memory that is required.


o None. Select this option to prevent any exchange of screen data between a
  full-screen application and Clipboard. This conserves memory.


o Text. Select this option to allocate memory to take snapshots of text
  screens. If your application runs in a window, select the Text option.


o Graphics/Text. Select this option to allocate memory to take snapshots of
  text and graphics screens.



________________________________________
Closing a window

Close Window on Exit  This option closes the standard application window
when you exit the program, rather than leaving information on the screen.

________________________________________
Default settings


Default Settings

If you run an application and Windows cannot find a PIF file,
Windows uses the following settings:


o Program Title: Ignored


o Initial Directory: Ignored


o Memory Required (KB): 52


o Memory Desired (KB): All available memory


o Directly Modifies: Screen


o Program Switch: Prevent


o Screen Exchange: Text


o Close Window on Exit: Does not close

Be aware that using the default settings for a PIF file may cause problems
with some programs. For example, some programs may need an initial
directory to run properly. Also, remember that since Program Switch is set
to Prevent, you cannot switch from your application to Windows by pressing
ALT+ESCAPE.

___________________________________________________________________________
Situations Requiring PIF File Changes

The following are procedures for some common situations in which you should
edit your application's PIF file. See the section called Editing PIF Files
earlier in this chapter to learn how to use PIF Editor to open a PIF file
for editing.

Listing a Pathname for an Application

When an application is located in a subdirectory, the PIF file that is
supplied with Windows will probably not list the full pathname of the
program. For example, the PIF file for Microsoft Chart lists CHART.EXE as
the program name, yet you may have CHART.EXE in a directory called CHART.
You need to change the program name to include the full pathname:
\CHART\CHART.EXE.


________________________________________
Changing a pathname listing

To edit the PIF file, follow these steps:


1 Use PIF Editor to open the PIF file.


2 Type the full pathname of the application in the Program Name text box.


3 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save your changes.


Setting Up an Application to Run in a Window

Some applications have installation instructions that allow you
to set them up to run with Windows, IBM TopView, or an ANSI
device driver (ANSI.SYS). If the program offers any of these
options, you usually can run it in a window.


________________________________________
Running an application in a window

To run an application in a window, follow these steps:


1 Use PIF Editor to open the PIF file.


2 Turn off the Directly Modifies Screen check box.


3 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save your changes.

Do this for all related .COM or .EXE files included in the application.

Freeing up Additional Memory

You can instruct Windows to swap, or temporarily remove itself, from memory
when you run a standard application. This frees additional memory that can
be used for the application. You must have a hard disk for Windows to swap
to.


________________________________________
Swapping

To allow Windows to swap, follow these steps:


1 Use PIF Editor to open the PIF file.


2 Set KB Desired to -1.


3 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save your changes.


Note This swapping may not occur if you are running a Windows application
that uses a communications port (for example, Terminal). When Windows tries
to swap itself to the hard disk, any applications that are running are
suspended. Swapping is prevented in order to avoid problems with
applications that use communications ports.


Giving an Application All Available Memory

At times, you may want to give an application the maximum amount of
available memory so it will run better with Windows.


________________________________________
Changing available memory

To change the amount of available memory, follow these steps:


1 Use PIF Editor to open the PIF file.


2 Change the amount in the KB Required option by typing 640 (or set the
  Directly Modifies Memory check box).


3 Select None from the Screen Exchange options.


4 Select the File menu and choose the Save command to save your changes.


5 Close all other applications except MS-DOS Executive and run the
  application.


___________________________________________________________________________
Getting Help with PIF Files

You can get on-line information about PIF files or about using PIF Editor.


________________________________________
Getting help information

To read help information, follow these steps:


1 Press the F1 function key or click F1=Help in the menu bar.


2 Select a topic, then choose the Help button.

















































