MICROSOFT DEVELOPMENT LICENSE
Microsoft WinG Software Development Kit

This is a legal agreement between you (either an individual or an 
entity) and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft").  By accessing and 
using the software, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of 
this Agreement.  If you do not agree to the terms of this Agreement, 
you are not authorized to use the software.

MICROSOFT LICENSE AGREEMENT

	1.	GRANT OF LICENSE TO USE.  Microsoft Corporation 
("Microsoft") grants to you the non-exclusive right to use the 
Microsoft software and electronic text files comprising the 
documentation (the "SOFTWARE") on a single computer for the sole 
purposes of designing, developing, and testing your software 
product(s), including but not limited to Windows-based and Win32-
based applications, and other software products, which operate in 
the Microsoft Windows or Windows NT evironments.  Microsoft reserves 
all rights not expressly granted.

	2.	COPYRIGHT. The SOFTWARE is owned by Microsoft or its 
suppliers and is protected by United States copyright laws and 
international treaty provisions.  Therefore, you must treat the 
SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted material (e.g., a book or 
musical recording).  You may not use or copy the SOFTWARE for any 
other purpose than what is described in this Agreement.  Except as 
provided herein, Microsoft does not grant any express or implied 
right to you to or under Microsoft patents, copyrights, trademarks, 
or trade secret information.

	3.	OTHER RESTRICTIONS. You may not rent or lease the 
SOFTWARE, but you may transfer the SOFTWARE and accompanying written 
materials on a permanent basis provided you retain no copies and the 
recipient agrees to the terms of this Agreement.  If the SOFTWARE is 
an update or has been updated, any transfer must include the most 
recent update and all prior versions.  You may not reverse engineer, 
decompile or disassemble the SOFTWARE except to the extent that the 
foregoing restriction is expressly prohibited by applicable law.

	4.	SAMPLE CODE. Microsoft grants you a non-exclusive 
royalty-free right to use and modify the source code version of the 
sample code located in the "samples" directories (Sample Code) for 
the sole purposes of designing, developing and testing your software 
products which operate in the Microsoft Windows or Windows NT 
environments, and to reproduce and distribute the Sample Code along 
with any modifications thereof, only in object code form provided 
that you comply with Section 6.

	5. 	REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE.  In addition to the rights 
granted in Section 1, Microsoft grants you additional rights to the 
SOFTWARE designated as "Redistributable Code".  The Redistributable 
Code files and the rights associated with each of them, subject to 
Section 6, are: WING.DLL, WING32.DLL, WINGDE.DLL, WINGDIB.DRV, 
WINGPAL.WND, SETUPHLP.DLL, and DVA.386

	6.	DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.  If you are authorized to 
redistribute the Sample Code and/or Redistributable Code, 
(collectively "REDISTRIBUTABLE COMPONENTS") as described in Sections 
4 and 5 above, you must (a) distribute the REDISTRIBUTABLE 
COMPONENTS only in conjunction with and as a part of your software 
application product; (b) not permit further redistribution of the 
REDISTRIBUTABLE COMPONENTS by your end-user customers; (c) not use 
Microsoft's name, logo, or trademarks to market you software 
application product; (e) include a valid copyright notice on your 
software application product; and (d) agree to indemnify, hold 
harmless, and defend Microsoft from and against any claims or 
lawsuits, including attorney's fees, that arise or result from the 
use or distribution of your software application product.  The 
license in this section to distribute REDISTRIBUTABLE COMPONENTS is 
royalty-free provided that your software application product is 
designed, developed and tested for operation in the Microsoft 
Windows or Windows NT environments.  Contact Microsoft for the 
applicable royalties due and other licensing terms for all other 
uses and/or distribution of the REDISTRIBUTABLE COMPONENTS.

	7.	EXPORT RESTRICTIONS.  You agree that neither you nor 
your customers intend to or will, directly or indirectly, export or 
transmit (a) the SOFTWARE or related documentation and technical 
data or (b) your software application product as described in 
Section 6 of this Agreement (or any part thereof), or process, or 
service that is the direct product of the SOFTWARE to any country to 
which such export or transmission is restricted by any applicable 
U.S. regulation or statute, without the prior written consent, if 
required, of the Bureau of Export Administration of the U.S. 
Department of Commerce, or such other governmental entity as may 
have jurisdiction over such export or transmission.
LIMITED WARRANTY

NO WARRANTIES.  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, 
Microsoft expressly disclaims any warranty for the SOFTWARE.  The 
SOFTWARE and any related documentation is provided "as is" without 
warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, without 
limitation, the implied warranties or merchantability or fitness for 
a particular purpose.  The entire risk arising out of use or 
performance of the SOFTWARE remains with you. 

NO LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.  To the maximum extent 
permitted by applicable law, in no event shall Microsoft or its 
suppliers be liable for any damages whatsoever (including, without 
limitation, damages for loss of business profit, business 
interruption, loss of business information, or any other pecuniary 
loss) arising out of the use or inability to use this Microsoft 
product, even if Microsoft has been advised of the possibility of 
such damages.  Because some states/jurisdictions do not allow the 
exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental 
damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. 

U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.

The SOFTWARE and documentation are provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  
Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is subject to 
restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of The Rights 
in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 
or subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software 
-- Restricted Rights at 48 CFR 52.227-19, as applicable.  
Manufacturer is Microsoft Corporation/One Microsoft Way/Redmond, WA 
98052-6399.

If you acquired this product in the United States, this Agreement is 
governed by the laws of the State of Washington.  If you acquired 
this product outside the United States, local law may apply.

Should you have any questions concerning this Agreement, or if you 
desire to contact Microsoft for any reason, please contact your 
local Microsoft subsidiary or sales office or write:  Microsoft 
Sales and Service/One Microsoft Way/Redmond, WA  98052-6399.



- 3 -

7/5/94    41860006.DOC


