___________________________________________________________________________

7 Terminal


________________________________________

Microsoft Windows Terminal is a terminal emulation application that you can
use to connect your computer to other computers, or to online information
services such as Dow Jones News/ Retrieval, CompuServe, and the Source and
to online bulletin boards.

___________________________________________________________________________
Starting Terminal


________________________________________
Running Terminal

Here's how you start Terminal:


1 Select and run TERMINAL.EXE in the MS-DOS Executive window.

When you start Terminal, it displays a blank window.

   _________________














   _________________


___________________________________________________________________________
Setting Up Terminal

Before you connect your computer to another computer, you must set up
Terminal using the commands from the Configure menu. The hardware you are
using and the system or computer you are connecting to determine how you
set up Terminal. The settings are not explained in detail in this guide;
for more information, see the user's manual for the hardware or system to
which you are connecting.

Terminal Settings


________________________________________
Selecting terminal
options

To set the terminal settings, follow these steps:


1 Select the Configure menu and choose the Terminal command. Terminal
  displays the Terminal Settings dialog box.
     _________________













     _________________



2 Select the appropriate settings for your computer. For an explanation of
  the settings, see the following list.

The following settings can be selected in the Terminal Settings dialog box:

Terminal Type  Consult the appropriate user's manual for information on
which option to select for this setting. See also Appendix A, ANSI/VT52
Terminal Emulation.

New Line  This option moves the insertion point to the beginning of a new
line when Terminal receives a linefeed character. If the New Line check box
is turned off, the insertion point moves down one line but does not move to
the beginning of the line.

Local Echo  This option enables Terminal to display all the text you type
on your screen. If the computer you are connected to is transmitting
information half-duplex (either transmitting or receiving, but not doing
both simultaneously), it does not echo your keystrokes on your screen. Turn
on the Local Echo check box if you want to display the information you type
on your screen. You can turn off the Local Echo check box if the computer
you are connected to is transmitting full-duplex (simultaneously
transmitting and receiving) and echoes your typing.

Auto Wraparound  This option affects how the incoming information is
displayed. If the Auto Wraparound check box is turned on, the insertion
point returns to the first column when it reaches the 80th column. If the
Auto Wraparound check box is turned off, the insertion point stops at the
last column, and incoming characters write over the last character. Turn
off this check box if the computer you are connected to provides an
automatic wrap feature.
Text Size  This setting allows you to select the size of the displayed
text. Terminal can display two different sizes of text. Large text normally
appears in Windows. Select the Small option if you want to fit more
information on your screen.

Lines in Buffer  This setting determines how much incoming information is
saved in the buffer before it is replaced by new information. The buffer
stores incoming information while Terminal is connected to a service. You
can set the buffer to store from 25 to 999 lines of information. If you
type a number that is higher than available memory, Terminal will
automatically set the buffer to the largest number of lines that available
memory permits.

Translation  This setting allows your terminal to emulate European ISO
(International Standards Organization) 7-bit character sets so that you can
send and receive information in a European language. By selecting a country
name, you specify which character set you want to use. Make sure that the
host computer recognizes the character set you select.
Communications Settings


________________________________________
Selecting communications options

To set the communications settings, follow these steps:


1 Select the Configure menu and choose the Communications command. Terminal
  displays the Communications Settings
  dialog box.

     _________________













     _________________



2 Select the appropriate options for the service to which you are
  connecting.

Most of the options for the settings in the Communications Settings dialog
box are determined by the modem you are using and the service to which you
are connecting. Consult the appropriate user's manual for information on
which options to select. The Connection and Port options are described in
the following list:

Connection  This setting enables you to connect to a modem or a computer.
Select the Computer option only if your computer is directly connected to
the other computer.

Port  This setting requires that you select the port to which you have
connected your modem or line to another computer.



Phone Settings

If you have a Hayes or Hayes-compatible modem, you can set Terminal to
connect automatically to the other computer or information service. If you
set the phone settings, Terminal dials the phone number you specify and
waits for the connect tone.


________________________________________
Selecting phone
options

To set your phone settings, do the following:


1 Select the Configure menu and choose the Phone command.
  Terminal displays the Phone Settings dialog box.

   _________________











   _________________


The following settings can be selected in the Phone Settings
dialog box:

Connect To  This setting enables you to specify the telephone number of the
service you want to connect to. Type the telephone number in the text box.
Make sure you type the entire number, including 1 and the area code if
necessary. Leave the text box blank if you are using an acoustic coupler
rather than a modem.

Commas instruct the modem to pause before dialing the number. For example,
if you must dial 9 to get an outside line, type a comma after the 9. This
allows time for the dial tone to sound before the modem dials the number.
You can use hyphens in the number for clarity; the modem ignores them.

Dial Type  This setting requires that you select the dial type of your
phone. If you normally hear a tone for each number you dial, you have a
tone telephone. If you hear a clicking sound, you probably have a pulse
telephone.

Speed  This setting controls how fast Terminal dials the phone number when
you choose the Connect command. Some phone systems require the number to be
dialed more slowly than others do. If you are unable to make a connection,
change the Speed setting and try again.

Wait for Tone  This setting defines how long Terminal waits for a connect
tone after the phone that you are trying to reach answers. Type the length
of time, in seconds, that you want Terminal to wait for the connect tone
before hanging up.

Wait for Answer  This setting defines how long Terminal waits before
hanging up if there is no answer. It is preset at 60 seconds. You can
increase the waiting time to up to 256 seconds.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using Terminal

After you have used the commands from the Configure menu to set up Terminal
the way you want it, you can connect your computer to another computer. You
use the commands from the Session menu to make the connection and to
control sending and receiving information.

Connecting to Another Computer


________________________________________
Connecting directly or with a modem

When you have defined all the correct settings, you can connect to the
other computer by doing the following:

1 Select the Session menu and choose the Connect command.

  Terminal attempts to connect to the service using the settings you
  specified in the dialog boxes.

If the connection fails, check to make sure you have correctly selected all
the dialog box options for the commands from the Configure menu.

If you did not type a telephone number in the Phone Settings dialog box, a
dialog box appears asking if you want to continue. Use the following
information to determine your response:


o Choose the Yes button if you are connecting directly to another computer
  without using a telephone.


o Choose the No button if you are making the connection with
  a telephone, then fill in the Phone Settings dialog box and choose the
  Connect command again.

After you have completed the connection, a checkmark will appear by the
Connect command the next time you select the Session menu.




________________________________________
Connecting with an
acoustic coupler

If you have an acoustic coupler rather than a modem, you should dial the
number yourself, wait for the connect tone, and then select the Session
menu and choose the Connect command. Make sure the Connect To text box in
the Phone Settings dialog box
is blank.

Pausing

During a Terminal session you can temporarily stop incoming information
from scrolling off the screen by using the Pause command. Information that
comes in while Pause is active is sent to the buffer. Once the buffer fills
up, however, further information may be lost if you don't have XON/XOFF
flow control. See the user's manual for the service to which you are
connected for more information on this feature.


________________________________________
Interrupting incoming
information

To temporarily stop incoming information, do the following:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Pause command.

  After you have chosen the Pause command, a checkmark will appear by the
  command the next time you select the Session menu.

To resume receiving information, follow this step:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Pause command.


Hint Typing a large number in the Lines in Buffer setting in the Terminal
Settings dialog box allows you to review more information. However, if you
have the window set to display 80 characters by 25 lines (using the Text
Size option Small), you may want to set the Lines in Buffer to 25. This
reduces the time it takes to resume receiving information after using the
Pause command.


Capturing Incoming Information

Normally, information is displayed only on your screen as it is received by
Terminal. You can set Terminal to capture the incoming information in a
file at the same time it is being displayed on your screen.


________________________________________
Capturing information
in a file

To capture incoming information in a file, follow these steps:



1 Select the Session menu and choose the Capture command. Terminal displays
  the Save Text dialog box.


     _________________




     _________________



2 Type in the text box the name of the file in which you want Terminal to
  put the captured information.

  If the file already exists, Terminal adds the captured information to it.
  If the file does not yet exist, Terminal creates it and adds .TXT to the
  filename. You don't have to type an extension unless you want a different
  one.


3 Choose the OK button.

  A C appears in the title bar. A checkmark will appear by the Capture
  command the next time you select the Session menu.

To stop capturing incoming information in a file, do the following:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Capture command.

  Terminal stops capturing the incoming information. Uncaptured information
  scrolls off the screen and cannot be retrieved.


When Terminal captures information, it puts it in a text file. Text files
can be used in any application that can load them. For example, you can
open a file with captured information in the Notepad window.

Printing Incoming Information


________________________________________
Printing information
You can send information to your printer at the same time it is appearing
on your screen by doing the following:



1 Select the Session menu and choose the Print command.

  A P appears in the title bar. A checkmark will appear by the Print
  command the next time you select the Session menu.

To stop printing incoming information, do the following:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Print command.


Signaling the Host Computer

You can use the Break command to get the attention of the host computer.
This is useful if you want to stop the execution of a program.


________________________________________
Signaling the host
computer

To signal the host computer, follow this step:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Break command.


Copying Information

You can copy information from your screen to the Clipboard and then paste
the information into other applications. You can also paste information
from other applications to Terminal by using Clipboard; for example, you
can use this method to send a file.


________________________________________
Duplicating information

Follow these steps to copy information from your screen to the Clipboard:


1 Select the Session menu and choose the Pause command to freeze the
  information on the screen.


2 Select the information you want to copy.

  To select information with the keyboard, use the DIRECTION keys to move
  the insertion point to the beginning of the information you want to copy.
  Press and hold down the SHIFT key and move the insertion point to the end
  of the information you want to copy, then release the SHIFT key.

  To select information with the mouse, move the pointer to the beginning
  of the information you want to copy, then drag the pointer to the end of
  the information you want to copy.


3 Select the Edit menu and choose the Copy command.

  Terminal puts a copy of the selected information on the
  Clipboard.

You can also include information from the Clipboard in what you are
sending. When you paste information from the Clipboard, it appears on the
screen just as if you had typed it.


________________________________________
Pasting information

To paste information from the Clipboard to the screen, do the
following:


1 Move the insertion point to the place where you want the information to
  appear.


2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Paste command.

  Terminal adds the contents of the Clipboard to the screen at the
  insertion point.


Disconnecting Terminal



________________________________________
Canceling the
connection

Follow these steps to disconnect Terminal:


1 Log off from the system to which you are connected.


2 Select the Session menu and choose the Connect command.


___________________________________________________________________________
Working with Terminal Files

You create, open, and save Terminal setup files with commands from the File
menu in the Terminal window. Terminal setup files are files that contain
Terminal settings and have the .TRM extension. You delete Terminal setup
files with commands from the File menu in the MS-DOS Executive window.

Opening a Setup File

You can open new or existing setup files in the Terminal window. If you
open a setup file when there is another file already open, Terminal closes
the current file. If you have unsaved changes in the current file, a dialog
box appears asking if you want to save your changes before closing the
file. Use the following information to determine your response:



To          Choose
___________________________________________________________________________

Save        Yes
changes

Discard
changes
            No

Continue    Cancel
working in
the
current
file


Creating a New Setup File


________________________________________
Creating setup files

To create a new setup file from the Terminal window, do the
following:


1 Select the File menu and choose the New command.

  Terminal opens a new setup file in the Terminal window.


Opening an Existing Setup File

If you want to use or change an existing setup file, you can open the file
either from the Terminal window or from the MS-DOS Executive window.


________________________________________
Opening files from
Terminal

To open an existing setup file from the Terminal window, follow these
steps:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Open command. Terminal displays the
  Open dialog box. Note that directories and drives are enclosed in
  brackets.

     _________________















     _________________



2 Select the name of the file you want to open from the list box, or type a
  pathname and filename in the text box at the top of the dialog box.


3
  Choose the Open button.

Terminal opens the file and displays a dialog box asking if you want to
connect. Choose the Yes button if you want to connect to the service or
computer; choose the No button if you want to change the settings in the
file.

To look at the settings in the current setup file, choose the different
Configure menu commands to see their dialog boxes.



________________________________________
Opening files with
the mouse

With the mouse, you can select and open a file listed in the list box in
one step:



1 Double-click the filename of the file you want to open.


________________________________________
Opening files from MS-DOS Executive

To open an existing setup file from the MS-DOS Executive window, do the
following:


1 Select the filename and press the ENTER key or, with the mouse, double-
  click the filename.


Viewing a File in Another Directory

The Open dialog box initially lists only drives, directories, and files
with the .TRM extension. You can view different files or groups of files as
well.


________________________________________
Viewing files in different directories

To view different files, follow these steps:



1 Select the drive, directory, or group of files you want to view from the
  list box, or type this information in the text box at the top of the Open
  dialog box.


2 Choose the Open button.

  Terminal lists the files in the drive, directory, or group of files you
  specified.

You can view any number of directories or groups of files. The Open dialog
box remains on the screen until you open a file or choose the Cancel
button.





Saving a Setup File

When you create or make changes to a Terminal setup file, you can save it
and use it again later. For example, if you intend to connect to a certain
service more than once, you can save the settings for that service in a
setup file. Then each time you want to connect to that service, you open
the setup file instead of redefining all of the settings. There are two
commands you can use to save a setup file: Save As and Save.

Saving a New Setup File

Use the Save As command to name and save a new file. You can also use Save
As to save the current file under a new name and keep the original copy of
the file on your disk under the old filename.


________________________________________
Saving new setup
files

Follow these steps to save a new setup file:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Save As command. Terminal displays
  the Save As dialog box.

     _________________




     _________________



2 Type a filename for the setup file in the text box. If you don't type an
  extension, Terminal automatically adds .TRM to the filename.


3 Choose the OK button.

  Terminal saves the setup file on your disk. The setup file remains active
  so that you can continue working in Terminal.


Note If you type the name of a file that already exists, a dialog box asks
if you want to replace the existing file with the file you are saving.
Choose the Yes button to replace the existing file, or choose the No button
and type a different filename.


Saving Changes to a File

The Save command saves the changes to the current setup file on the disk.


________________________________________
Saving file changes

To save changes to the current setup file, do the following:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Save command.

  Terminal replaces the file on your disk with the current file.


Deleting a Setup File


________________________________________
Removing setup files

You can delete a Terminal setup file to make room for other files on your
disk. You delete a setup file using the Delete command from the File menu
in the MS-DOS Executive window.

See the Microsoft Windows User's Guide for information on MS-DOS Executive
and on deleting files.

___________________________________________________________________________
Closing the Terminal Window


________________________________________
Quitting Terminal

Use the Exit command to quit Terminal:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Exit command.

If you have unsaved changes to the file, a dialog box appears asking if you
want to save your settings before closing the window. Choosing the Cancel
button allows you to continue working in your Terminal file. Choosing the
Yes or No button closes your Terminal window.

___________________________________________________________________________
Using Shortcut Keys


________________________________________
Keyboard shortcuts

See Appendix B, Shortcut Keys, for a list of the shortcut keys you can use
to choose some of Terminal's commands.

























