___________________________________________________________________________

Introduction

Microsoft(R) Windows Paint is a drawing tool designed for use with
Microsoft Windows. You can work with Paint to create, enhance, save, and
print black and white artwork.


________________________________________
Paint is a useful drawing tool

With Paint, you can create drawings that suit your needs. Whether you're
making flow charts or doing freehand illustrations, you'll find just the
tools you need on Paint's Tools palette. Special commands such as Zoom In,
Copy, and Invert make it easy to enhance your work. You can even transfer
text and graphics from other programs to Paint for easy editing and
enhancement, or create Paint graphics to use in other Windows applications,
such as
Cardfile.


________________________________________
Paint is easy to use

You don't need to memorize complex commands or instructions. With Paint,
you can create art as quickly as you can point with a mouse or press a key.
All the artwork in this manual was created using Paint.


___________________________________________________________________________
About This Guide

This guide shows you how to get started with Paint and provides a quick
reference to Paint's tools, patterns, and commands. Once you understand
these basics, you'll be able to experiment with Paint on your own.


  ________________________________________
  Using this guide


o Chapter 1, Getting Started, tells you how to start Paint and how to use
  an optional work disk for a two-drive system, and introduces you to the
  terminology used in this guide. This chapter also provides you with
  printing information that you will need to read before you print your
  Paint drawings.


o Chapter 2, Learning Paint, explains how to create a drawing using
  different tools and patterns, and how to add text to your drawing.


o Chapter 3, Enhancing a Drawing, explains how to make changes to your
  drawing using commands from Paint's Edit and Options menus.


o Chapter 4, Tools Summary, describes how to use each of Paint's tools.


o Chapter 5, Command Summary, describes the purpose and use of each Paint
  command.


o Appendix A, Using Paint with the Keyboard, lists the keyboard commands
  for users who have no mouse. It also describes how to use the CONTROL and
  SHIFT keys together with the mouse to modify certain Paint operations.

o Appendix B, Tools Description, describes the function of each of Paint's
  tools and shows art that was created using these tools.



________________________________________
Preliminaries

Before using Paint, become familiar with your computer, with its operating
system, and with Microsoft Windows. If you have questions about these
basics, see the appropriate user's guide for more information.


________________________________________
Next

To get the most out of this guide, read Chapter 1 to learn how to start
Paint. Then read Chapters 2 and 3 to become acquainted with some of Paint's
drawing and editing features. Use Chapters 4 and 5 as a reference while you
experiment with Paint.

The exercises in Chapters 2 and 3 are designed to be used with a mouse. If
you want to use your keyboard to work through these exercises, see Appendix
A, Using Paint with the Keyboard.

Note The illustrations in this guide were done with Paint, using an
Extended Graphics Adapter (EGA) high-resolution graphics card and a Toshiba
printer driver. If you are using a different graphics card or have
specified a different printer when you set up Windows, keep in mind that as
you work through the exercises, the drawings you create may look slightly
different from those in the illustrations.


































