___________________________________________________________________________

2 Learning Paint

Now you are ready to begin your first Paint session. First, you will use
the Pencil and Eraser tools to sketch and erase a few lines. Then you will
use the Undo and Erase commands to learn how to correct mistakes and clear
the drawing window.

Once you feel comfortable drawing with the mouse and using the Eraser tool
and the Undo command, go on to the section called Creating a Drawing and
work through the exercise there.

Although Paint is designed for use with a mouse, you can also use Paint
with the keyboard. See Appendix A, Using Paint with the Keyboard, for more
information on this method.

___________________________________________________________________________
Getting the Feel of Paint

You can make simple sketches using Paint's Pencil. The Pencil is already
selected when you first start Paint: notice the Pencil icon in the upper-
left corner of the status box.


________________________________________
Drawing with the Pencil

Here's how you draw with the Pencil:



1 Move the mouse pointer into the drawing window. The pointer changes to a
  pencil as soon as it enters the drawing window.


2 Drag the pointer in the drawing window to sketch a horizontal line.
  Release the mouse button.

  (Don't worry if your line isn't perfectly straight. Later on you will
  learn how to use a grid for more control.)

     _________________










     _________________



3 Move the pointer a short distance above the line.


4 Drag the pointer down to sketch a vertical line. Release the mouse
  button.

     _________________


     _________________



Erasing Part of a Drawing


________________________________________
Using the Eraser

You can use the Eraser to erase parts of your drawing that you no longer
want. To erase part of the line you've just drawn, follow these steps:


1 Move the mouse pointer to the Eraser tool in the Tools palette.


2 Click the mouse button. The tool shown in the status box changes to an
  eraser.


3 Move the pointer to the top of the vertical line. The pointer changes to
  an eraser as soon as it enters the drawing window.


4 Drag the pointer downward to erase part of the line. Release the mouse
  button.

     _________________










     _________________



Using the Undo and Erase Commands


________________________________________
Using the Undo
command

You can use the Undo command to restore the last object you erased, or to
delete the last object you created:


1 Select the Edit menu and choose the Undo command.

  The part of the line you just erased reappears.

For practice using the Undo command, follow these steps:


1 Select the Pencil tool in the Tools palette.


2 Draw another line somewhere in the drawing window.

3 Select the Edit menu and choose the Undo command.

  The line you have just drawn is deleted from the drawing.


4 Choose Undo again to restore the line.


________________________________________
Using the Erase
command

You can use the Erase command if you no longer want the objects in the
drawing window. To erase the sketch you have just made, do this:


1 Select the Edit menu and choose the Erase command.

  Paint clears the drawing window.


___________________________________________________________________________
Ending a Paint Session

If you want to quit Paint and take a break before the next exercise, use
the Exit command from the File menu. If you don't want to quit Paint yet,
go on to the next section.


________________________________________
Quitting Paint

To quit Paint, follow these steps:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Exit command.

  If you have created a new drawing, or made changes to an old one, Paint
  prompts you to save your drawing before quitting.


2 Choose the No button. (You will learn how to save a drawing later on.)

  Windows closes the Paint window.


___________________________________________________________________________
Creating a Drawing

Now that you have practiced drawing with the mouse and know what to do if
you make a mistake, you are ready to begin your first drawing in Paint. In
this exercise, you will use several of Paint's tools, patterns, and
commands to create the following pie chart. When you have completed the pie
chart, you will learn how to print it.

   _________________









   _________________

Before You Begin

Before you begin, make sure that you have started Paint (if you quit Paint
in the last section). See Chapter 1, Getting Started, if you need a
reminder on how to start Paint. You may want to enlarge the Paint window to
fill the entire screen by using the Maximize box or the Maximize command.
This will give you more space in the drawing window.

For the following exercise, you'll need the Helvetica font. Look
in the Character menu to see if the abbreviation Helv is there. (You could
use another font if you wanted; your drawing would just look different from
the examples you see in this chapter.) See the Microsoft Windows User's
Guide for information on how to add fonts.

If you want to print your drawing, make sure that your printer is connected
and set up the way you want before you begin. See the section called
Preparing to Print in Chapter 1, Getting Started, and the Microsoft Windows
User's Guide for information on how to add and set up a printer.

If you just want to experiment with Paint, you don't need to connect or set
up a printer. Just work through the following exercise and then skip over
the section called Printing a Drawing.

Starting a New Drawing

If you did not quit Paint in the previous section, use the New command to
start a new drawing. This command clears any remaining objects outside of
the drawing window.


________________________________________
Beginning a new drawing

To begin drawing the pie chart, follow these steps:


1 Select the File menu and choose the New command.

  A dialog box may ask if you want to save the current drawing (probably
  your pencil sketches from the previous exercise).


2 Choose the No button. (You will learn how to save a drawing later.)


Using Paint's Tools and Palettes

You draw objects in Paint using the Tools palette, and you specify
patterns, line widths, and brush shapes by choosing commands from the
Palette menu.


________________________________________
Changing the Line Width

In this exercise, you will begin by changing the line width:


1 Select the Palette menu and choose the Line Widths command.

  The Line Widths palette appears, with the current line width selected.

     _________________


     _________________



2
  ________________________________________

  Select the third line width.

  The Line Widths palette vanishes and the new line width appears in the
  lower-right corner of the status box.

Once you display a palette, you must make a selection before you can return
to the drawing window. If you decide not to change the selection, just
click the item selected.


________________________________________
Drawing a circle

Now you will draw the border of the pie chart:


1 Select the Circle tool. (Use the empty circle, shown in the margin.)

  The circle appears in the status box.


2 Position the pointer to the left of the center of the drawing window, as
  shown in the following example.

     _________________










     _________________



3 Drag the pointer to the left to draw the circle, then release the mouse
  button.

  Your drawing will look something like this:

     _________________








     _________________


Make sure that you can see the entire circle in the drawing window and that
it is on the left side of the screen. This is important because you will
need room later on to add objects and text on the right side of the screen.
If the circle is not in the proper place, use the Undo command to erase it,
and then try again.


________________________________________

Now you are ready to divide the chart into four pieces. First you need to
change the line width again:


1 Select the second line width on the Line Widths palette.


________________________________________
Drawing a straight line

Now draw the first line to divide the chart:


1 Select the Line tool.


2 Position the pointer on the top edge of the circle so that it is
  centered.

     _________________










     _________________



3 Drag the pointer to the center of the circle, then release the mouse
  button.

Now draw the remaining lines:


1 Position the pointer at the center of the circle (this should be the end
  point of the first line).

     _________________








     _________________



2 Drag the pointer to the bottom-right edge of the circle, then release the
  mouse button.

     _________________
     _________________


  It is important that the dividing lines meet at the center and touch the
  edge of the circle. Otherwise, you won't be able to shade the pieces
  properly later on. If the lines don't meet, use the Undo command to erase
  the second line. Then redraw it as described in the two preceding steps.


3 Draw the rest of the dividing lines in the same way.

  Your drawing will look something like this:


   _________________








   _________________


Saving Your Work

During a Paint session, it is a good idea to save your drawing at regular
intervals. That way you can be sure that you won't lose your work if your
session is interrupted. There are two commands you can use to save a
drawing: Save As and Save.

________________________________________
Using the Save As command

Use the Save As command to name and save a drawing that doesn't already
have a title.


1 Select the File menu and choose the Save As command.

  A dialog box prompts you to name your drawing. The text
  box is empty because your drawing is untitled.

     _________________





     _________________



2 Type a name for your drawing, such as piechart. It doesn't matter whether
  you use capital or lowercase letters. If you don't type an extension,
  Paint adds .MSP to the filename.


3 Choose the OK button, or press the ENTER key.

  The Save As command stores your drawing as a file on your disk under the
  filename you typed.


________________________________________
Using the Save command

If you want to save your drawing again later on, select the File menu and
choose the Save command to save your changes under the current filename.
The Save command will write over the old version of the file; choose the
Save As command if you want to save your changes under a different filename
and keep the original drawing.

Note Once you have created Paint files that have a .MSP extension, you have
a new way to start Paint: just double-click the .MSP filename in the MS-DOS
Executive window. Windows starts Paint and opens the file.


Adding Patterns to a Drawing

Now that you have divided your pie chart into four pieces, and have saved
the work you've done so far, you are ready to fill in the pie pieces. You
will do this by using the Fill tool and several different patterns.

________________________________________
Changing patterns

Follow these steps to select a pattern and fill a pie piece:


1 Select the Palette menu and choose the Patterns command.

  The Patterns palette appears, with the current pattern selected.

     _________________








     _________________


  ________________________________________

  Select the light pattern of dots in the second column of the second row.

  The Patterns palette vanishes and the new pattern appears in the upper-
  right corner of the status box.


  ________________________________________
  Filling an area



2 Select the Fill tool.


3 Position the pointer inside the largest pie piece.

     _________________






     _________________



4 Click the mouse button.

  The first pie piece is filled with the new pattern.

This is a good point to begin drawing a legend for your pie chart. You will
do this using the Brush tool and the Brush Shapes palette.

Hint If you find that you need a little more control when using the Pencil
or Brush, you may want to use a grid to help you draw. See Chapter 5,
Command Summary, for information on how to specify and use a grid.



________________________________________
Changing the brush shape

Follow these steps to add the first pattern to the legend:


1 Select the Palette menu and choose the Brush Shapes command.

  The Brush Shapes palette appears, with the current brush shape selected.

     _________________






     _________________


  ________________________________________



2 Select the large round brush shape in the second column of the first row.

  The Brush Shapes palette vanishes and the new brush shape appears in the
  lower-left corner of the status box.



3
  ________________________________________
  Using the Brush

  Select the Brush tool.


4 Position the pointer near the top-right edge of the circle.

     _________________








     _________________



5 Drag the pointer a short distance to the right.

It is important that the pattern be close to the circle. Later on, you will
need enough room above and next to the pattern to type text.

If the pattern is not as straight as you would like it to be, or if it's
not close enough to the circle, use the Undo command to erase it, and then
try again.

Remember, you can choose a grid if you need more control while drawing the
patterns.

Your drawing should now look something like this:

   _________________








   _________________

To fill in the second pie piece, follow these steps:


1 Select the Palette menu and choose the Patterns command.


2
  ________________________________________

  Select the pattern in row 4, column 3.


3 Select the Fill tool.


4 Position the pointer inside the second piece.

     _________________








     _________________



5 Click the mouse button.

  The second pie piece is filled with the new pattern.

Now add the second pattern to the legend:


1 Select the Brush tool.


2 Position the pointer below the first pattern in the legend.

     _________________








     _________________



3 Drag the pointer a short distance to the right.

  Your drawing should now look something like this:

     _________________








     _________________



4
  ________________________________________

  Repeat the preceding steps to fill in the rest of the pie pieces and to
  finish the legend.

  For this exercise, use the pattern in row 3, column 4 of the Patterns
  palette for the third piece, and the one in row 1, column 2 for the
  fourth piece.

When you are finished filling in the pieces and creating the legend, your
drawing will look something like this:

   _________________








   _________________


Adding Text to a Drawing

You are now ready to add numbers, names, and a title to your drawing. You
will add numbers to the pie pieces, names of pizza parlors to the legend,
and a title to the pie chart. To do this, you will use several commands
from the Character, Size, and Style menus.


Note In this exercise, the text for the legend items and the title of the
drawing was created using the Helvetica font. You may use another font if
you like; your drawing will just look slightly different from the following
examples.

Before you continue with this exercise, make sure the font you want to use
is listed in the Character menu. If it isn't, first use the Save command to
Save your drawing. Then see the Microsoft Windows User's Guide for
information on adding fonts.


________________________________________
Adding text

To type numbers in the pie pieces, follow these steps:


1 Select the Text tool.


2 Position the pointer inside the first pie piece, where you want the
  number to appear, and click the mouse button to position the insertion
  point.

     _________________









     _________________



3 Type 45 %. (Use a space between the number and the percent sign.)

  If you make a mistake, press the BACKSPACE key and retype the number.


4 Repeat steps 2 and 3 to add numbers to the rest of the pieces.

  Type 30 % in the second piece, 15 % in the third piece, and 10 % in the
  fourth piece.

When you are finished typing the numbers, your drawing will look something
like this:

   _________________








   _________________


________________________________________
Choosing fonts and font sizes

Now type the names of the pizza parlors next to the patterns in the legend:


1 Select the Character menu and choose the font you've decided to use. (A
  checkmark will appear next to this font the next time you choose the
  Character menu.)


2 Select the Size menu and choose 15. (A checkmark will appear next to this
  number the next time you choose the Size menu.)

  Note If you are using a graphics card other than an Extended Graphics
  Adapter (EGA) or a font other than Helvetica (Helv), some of the font
  sizes used in this exercise may not be supported, or they may appear
  quite large on your screen. If this is the case, choose a different font
  size from the Size menu, and then follow the next steps to add text. Keep
  trying different sizes until the size of your text comes close to the
  size of the text in the example.

  If you are using an EGA card, just go on to the next step.



3 Position the pointer to the right of the first pattern in the legend and
  click the mouse button to position the insertion point.

     _________________








     _________________



4 Type Mama LaGuido's.

  If you make a mistake, press the BACKSPACE key and retype
  the name.

Now add the remaining names to the legend:


1 Position the pointer to the right of the second pattern in the legend and
  click the mouse button to position the insertion point.

  Hint You can press the ENTER key after typing the first name. This will
  move the insertion point to the next line, although
  it may not match the distance between paint patterns.


     _________________








     _________________



2 Type Tons of Toppins.


3 Repeat this procedure to add the rest of the names to the legend.

  Type The Anchovy next to the third pattern and Crusty's
  next to the fourth pattern.

Don't worry if the patterns and names aren't perfectly lined up with each
other. In the next chapter, you will learn how to move objects around in
the drawing window so that you can line up the names and patterns in the
legend.

When you have finished adding the names to the legend, your drawing will
look something like this:

   _________________








   _________________

Now you need to add a heading to the legend and a title to the bottom of
the pie chart.


________________________________________
Choosing font styles

First, type a heading for the legend:


1 Select the Character menu to make sure the font you are using is still
  active. If it's not, choose the font again.


2 Select the Size menu to make sure the font size is still set at 15 (or
  whatever size you are using). If it's not, choose the size again.


3 Select the Style menu and choose the Bold command. (A checkmark will
  appear next to this command the next time you choose the Style menu.)


4 Position the pointer above the left edge of the first pattern in the
  legend, and click the mouse button to position the insertion point.

     _________________








     _________________


5 Type Legend.


________________________________________
Scrolling a drawing

Before you type a title for the pie chart, you need to make room for it at
the bottom of the drawing. To do this, use the Scroll tool to move your
drawing up:


1 Select the Scroll tool.


2 Position the pointer at the bottom-left corner of the drawing window.

     _________________










     _________________



3 Drag the pointer up until the top fourth of the chart scrolls out of the
  drawing window, then release the mouse button.

Now type the title below the chart:


1 Select the Character menu to make sure that the font you are using is
  still active. If it's not, choose the font again.


2 Select the Size menu and choose 18.


3 Select the Style menu to make sure the Bold command is still active. If
  it's not, choose Bold.


4 Select the Style menu and choose the Centered command.


5 Select the Text tool.


6 Position the pointer below the middle of your drawing and click the mouse
  button to position the insertion point.

     _________________






     _________________



7 Type The Market Share of the Top Four Pizza Parlors.

  If you make a mistake, press the BACKSPACE key and retype
  the title.

Now type the second line of the title:


1 Position the pointer below the center of the first line and click the
  mouse button to position the insertion point.

     _________________








     _________________



2 Select the Style menu and choose the Italic command.


3 Type (in percentages).

Your completed drawing should look something like this:

   _________________







   _________________

The drawing you have just created is fairly large, so it doesn't completely
fit in the drawing window. If you want to see more
of your drawing, use the Scroll tool to move the drawing down. After
scrolling your drawing, you should be able to see the top part of the pie
chart.

You will be making changes to your drawing in the first part of the next
chapter, so be sure to save it:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Save command.

The Save command saves the changes you made to your drawing. If you want to
keep the original drawing, use the Save As command and type a new filename
in the text box. Paint stores your changed drawing in a file under the name
you type.

___________________________________________________________________________
Printing a Drawing


________________________________________
Using the Print command

If you decided not to print your drawing, go to the next chapter to learn
about more of Paint's features.

If your computer is connected to a printer, and you have set up the printer
using Control Panel, you can print your drawing. Here's how:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Print command.

  Paint prints your drawing.





















































