___________________________________________________________________________

3 Enhancing a Drawing

In the last chapter, you learned how to use Paint's tools and palettes
together with some of its commands to create a drawing.

In the first part of this chapter, you will learn how to use the Zoom In
command to enhance the pie chart you created in the last chapter. In the
rest of this chapter, you will learn how to design your own patterns, and
how to use Paint's selection tools and editing commands to edit a section
of your drawing.

If you have quit Paint, start Paint again. If you need a reminder
on starting Paint, see Chapter 1, Getting Started. The next page describes
how to open a file.

___________________________________________________________________________
Opening a Drawing File


________________________________________
Opening a drawing

Use the Open command to open a file that contains the drawing you want to
change:


1 Select the File menu and choose the Open command.

  A dialog box prompts you for the name of the drawing file.

     _________________














     _________________



2 Type the name of the file you want to open, in this case piechart.msp, or
  scroll through the list box and click the filename.


3 Choose the Open button.

  Your drawing appears on the screen.


Hint You can start Paint and open a file from the MS-DOS Executive window
in a single step: just change to the directory that contains your Paint
drawing files and double-click the filename you want to open.


___________________________________________________________________________
Editing in Detail

To do detailed editing on a part of your drawing, use the Zoom In command
and the Pencil. The Zoom In command enlarges a drawing section so that you
can turn screen pixels on or off. A screen pixel is simply a small dot on
the screen. When it is on, it appears black. When it is off, it appears
white. You point to a pixel with the Pencil and click the mouse button to
turn it on or off.

In this exercise, you will draw borders around the numbers in the pie
pieces so that they are easier to read.


________________________________________
Using the Zoom In command

The first step is to enlarge the area around the number in the second pie
piece (the one marked 30 %):


1 Select the Pencil tool.


2 Position the Pencil between the zero and the percent sign and click the
  mouse button.

     _________________








     _________________


  The Pencil makes a mark at the point where you click: white on black, or
  black on white.


3 Select the Options menu and choose the Zoom In command.


4
  Paint zooms in to where you last released the mouse button. This view of
  the screen is called a zoomed-in drawing window.


Notice the small box in the upper-left corner of the drawing window. This
box displays a zoomed-out view of the area you are editing. As you turn
pixels on or off, you can see how the area will look when you return to the
regular drawing window.

________________________________________
Scrolling a zoomed-in drawing window

If the number is not entirely displayed in the zoomed-in window, you can
scroll your drawing to bring the number into view. Here's how:



1 Press the SHIFT key.


2
  Drag the pointer in the direction you want to scroll. The area in the
  small box in the upper-left corner of the drawing window moves as you
  scroll.


3 Release the SHIFT key and the mouse button.

  The scrolled area appears in the zoomed-in drawing window.


________________________________________
Editing pixel-by-pixel

Now draw a border around the number:


1 Click the pixels near the number to draw a border.

     _________________









     _________________

  Don't worry if you accidently turn a white area to black, or a black area
  to white. Just click the area once more and it will change back to its
  original color.

  Be sure to click the pixel between the zero and the percent sign that you
  turned black when you were marking the target area.


2 When you have finished drawing the border around the number, select the
  Options menu and choose the Zoom Out command.

  The regular drawing window reappears.

To add a border around the number in the first pie piece (the one marked 45
%), follow these steps:


1 Position the Pencil between the 5 and the percent sign, then click the
  mouse button.

     _________________








     _________________



2 Select the Options menu and choose the Zoom In command.


3 Click the black or white areas to turn pixels on or off. Drag the pointer
  to turn several pixels on or off quickly. Do this until you've drawn a
  border around the number.

     _________________








     _________________



4 When you are done, select the Options menu and choose the Zoom Out
  command.

Repeat these steps to draw borders around the rest of the numbers. When you
have finished, your drawing should look something like this:

   _________________








   _________________


___________________________________________________________________________
Moving a Selection

You can select part of your drawing and move it to another place in the
drawing window. In this exercise, you will move the patterns and names in
the legend so that their left edges are lined up. You will do this using
the Selection Rectangle tool and the pointer to line up the items.

Note If you used a grid in the last chapter to create the legend, you'll
need to use the same grid for this exercise. Paint refers to this grid when
you line up the items in the legend.


________________________________________
Selecting an area

Follow these steps to select and move one of the items in the legend:


1 Select the Selection Rectangle tool.


2 Position the pointer above and slightly to the left of Tons of Toppins.

     _________________






     _________________



3 Drag the pointer down and to the right to enclose the text in a dotted
  selection box.

     _________________










     _________________



4 Position the pointer inside the selection box. The pointer changes to an
  arrow, indicating that you can drag the
  selection.


5 Drag the text until the T in Tons of Toppins is lined up with the M in
  Mama LaGuido's, and the space between the items looks right to you.

     _________________








     _________________


  When you release the mouse button the selection stays where it is. You
  can drag it again as many times as you want, until you're satisfied with
  its position. As soon as you click the mouse button outside the selection
  box, the box disappears and the text is pasted to your drawing in its new
  place.


6 Repeat steps 2 through 5 to line up the rest of the patterns and pizza
  names in the legend, and to add or remove space between the items.

You have now completed all of the exercises that use the pie chart you
created in the last chapter as an example. If you want
to keep the pie chart, use the Save command to save the changes you've made
before you move on to the next exercise.

___________________________________________________________________________
Designing Your Own Pattern

If the Patterns palette doesn't include a pattern you would like to use,
you can design your own and use it during the rest of your Paint session.
To practice using this feature, clear the drawing window and start a new
drawing:


1
  Select the File menu and choose the New command.

  Paint clears any remaining objects in the drawing and displays an empty
  drawing window.



________________________________________
Designing a pattern

Now start designing your own pattern:


1 Select the first pattern from the Patterns Palette.


2 Select the Options menu and choose the Edit Pattern
  command.

  A dialog box displays a pattern of squares on the left and
  an enlarged view of the current pattern on the right.

     _________________











     _________________



3 Click the squares in the pattern on the left to make them black or white.
  The effects of your editing are displayed to the right.

     _________________











     _________________



4 When you have finished designing a pattern, choose the OK button. The new
  pattern appears in the status box.

Now try out your new pattern to see how it looks inside a shape:


1 Use the Circle tool to draw a pie and the Line tool to draw a one-quarter
  slice in it. Make sure that the lines meet and that they touch the edge
  of the pie.

2 Use the Eraser tool to erase everything except for the pie piece.

     _________________








     _________________



3 Use the Fill tool to fill the piece with the new pattern.

     _________________








     _________________



________________________________________

Go ahead and experiment a little. Try designing new patterns from several
of the standard ones. While you are experimenting, try using some new
tools, such as the Filled Rectangle or the Filled Oval.

   _________________








   _________________


If you like the new patterns you have just designed, you may want to keep a
list of the standard patterns you started with, and make rough sketches of
the new patterns as they appear in the left-hand square of the Edit Pattern
dialog box. Each time you start Paint, you will need to redesign these
patterns if you want to use them.

Don't erase the pie piece in the drawing you just made. You will need it
for the rest of this chapter. If you want to keep the other objects, use
the Save As command to save the drawing under a new filename. Then go ahead
and erase the parts you don't need for the next exercise.

___________________________________________________________________________
Copying a Selection

You can copy all or part of your drawing using the Copy command from the
Edit menu. In this exercise, you'll copy the pie piece you made in the last
section.

Before you can use most of the Edit menu commands, you need to select the
area of the drawing you want to change:


  ________________________________________
  Copying and pasting


1 Select the Selection Rectangle tool and enclose the pie piece in the
  selection box.

  If you include any white space, it will be copied to your drawing as
  well. If you do not want to copy extra white space, make sure that the
  right, left, and bottom edges of the piece almost touch the selection
  box, as shown in the following example:

     _________________








     _________________



2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Copy command.

  This copies the selected area to the Clipboard.

  Note Whenever you select an area to copy to the Clipboard, make sure that
  the entire area is visible in the drawing window. If it is not, only the
  part that you see will be copied to the Clipboard.



3 Select the Edit menu and choose the Paste command.

  This pastes the Clipboard contents to your drawing, inside a selection
  box.

     _________________









     _________________



4 Position the pointer inside the selection box. The pointer will change to
  an arrow, indicating that you can drag the selection.


5 Drag the selection to the right side of the original pie piece, then
  release the mouse button.

     _________________








     _________________


You now have two pie pieces on your screen: the original one, and the copy
inside the selection box, which you will enhance using another editing
command.

___________________________________________________________________________
Editing a Selection

You can use the commands at the bottom of the Edit menu to enhance the
selected area of your drawing.

In this exercise, you will use the Flip Horizontal command to put the two
pieces together. For descriptions of the other editing commands, see the
section called The Edit Menu in Chapter 5, Command Summary. The selection
box should still appear around the copy of the pie piece. If it doesn't,
use the Selection Rectangle tool to select the piece again.


________________________________________
Editing a selection

Here's how to create a mirror image of the selection:


1 Select the Edit menu and choose the Flip Horizontal command.

  The selected pie piece flips from left to right, making half a pie.

     _________________








     _________________



2 Click the mouse button outside the selection box to paste the copy
  permanently to your drawing.


Note If you have included any white space inside the selection box, it is
also copied to your drawing. This may create a space between the two pie
pieces.

You have now completed all the exercises in this guide. If you need a
review, go to Chapter 4, Tools Summary, and Chapter 5, Command Summary, for
a complete description of all Paint's tools and commands and instruction on
how to use them. You may want to glance at Appendix B, Tools Description,
for a brief description of each tool and an idea of the kinds of drawings
you can create in Paint.


































































