{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\fswiss Arial;}{\f4\froman Times New Roman;}{\f5\froman Times Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f4\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s246\li720 
\i\f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720 \i\f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720 \i\f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720 \f4\fs20\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720 \b\f4\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360 \f4\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360 \b\f4 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb120 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb240 \b\f2\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \f4 
\sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\f4 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author sdfgsdfg}{\creatim\yr1991\mo10\dy6\hr20\min15}{\version1}{\edmins332}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8368}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain 
\keepn \f4 {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} About Demonstration} #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} About_Topic}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
 EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","About()")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} About()}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:005} }{\b\f3\fs28 About()}
\par \pard 
\par This Macro displays the About... dialog for a Help file from the Help menu.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }The About... dialog should appear.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $}
 AddAccelerator Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} AddAccelerator_Topic}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
 EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","AddAccelerator(0x48,2,`About()')")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} AddAccelerator();Hot Key;Shift State}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:010}} {\b\f3\fs28 AddAccelerator(}{\f3 key, shift-state, "macro"}{\b\f3\fs28 )}
\par \pard 
\par This macro assigns a Help macro to an accelerator key so that the macro is carried out when the user presses the accelerator.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 Parameter\cell Description\cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl key\cell The Windows virtual key value
\par .\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl shift-state\cell A number specifying the combination of Alt, Shift, and Ctrl keys used with the accelerator: 
\par 
\par 1 Shift
\par 2 Ctrl
\par 3 Shift+Ctrl
\par 4 Alt
\par 5 Alt+Shift
\par 6 Alt+Ctrl
\par 7 Shift+Alt+Ctrl
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl macro\cell The Help macro or macro string executed when the user presses the accelerator key(s).  Multiple macros in a string must be separated by semicolons.\cell 
\pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:}\cell Creates the accelerator CTRL+H to bring up the About... dialog.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Annotate Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Annotate_Topic}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {
\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","Annotate()")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Annotate();Notes}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:015} }{\b\f3\fs28 Annotate()

\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the Annotation dialog box from the Edit menu.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:}\cell The annotation dialog box should appear.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} AppendItem Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} AppendItem_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
 EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","AppendItem(`Macro_Menu',`Extra_Menu',`&Extra',`JI(`MACROHLP.HLP',`Extra_Topic')')")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} AppentItem();Menu;InsertMenu()}} {
\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:020}} {\b\f3\fs28 AppendItem(}{\f3 "menu-id", "item-id","item-name","macro"}{\b\f3\fs28 )
\par }\pard 
\par This macro appends a menu item to a menu you create with the {\uldb InsertMenu}{\v InsertMenu_Topic} macro.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 Parameter\cell Description\cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl menu-id\cell Name used in the {\uldb InsertMenu}{\v 
InsertMenu_Topic} macro used to create the menu. This name must appear in quotation marks. The new item is appended to this menu.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl item-id\cell 
Name that WinHelp uses internally to identify the menu item. This name must appear in quotation marks. Use this name in the {\uldb DisableItem}{\v DisableItem_Topic} or {\uldb DeleteItem}{\v DeleteItem_Topic}
 macro if you want to remove or disable the item, or change the operations that the item performs in certain topics.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl item-name\cell 
Name WinHelp displays on the menu for the item. This name must appear in quotation marks. Within the quotation marks, place an ampersand (&) before the character used for the macro's access key.\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 
\cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl macro\cell Help macro or macro string executed when the user selects the menu item. Multiple macros in a string must be separated by semicolons.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }Adds the Extra menu choice to the Menu item if the {\uldb InsertMenu}{\v\uldb InsertMenu_Topic}
 macro has already been run, otherwise an error message will be generated.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Back Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Back_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 
{\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","Back()")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Back();History List}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:025}} {\b\f3\fs28 
Back()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the previous topic in the history list.  The history list is a list of the last 40 topics the user has displayed since starting WinHelp.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }The previous topic will be displayed.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} BookmarkDefine Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} BookmarkDefine_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","BookmarkDefine()")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K}
 BookmarkDefine();Define;Bookmark}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:030}} {\b\f3\fs28 BookmarkDefine()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the Define dialog from the Bookmark menu.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }The Define dialog from the bookmark menu will be displayed.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} BookmarkMore Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} BookmarkMore_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","BookmarkMore()")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} BookmarkMore();Bookmark}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:035}} {\b\f3\fs28 BookmarkMore()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the More dialog from the Bookmark menu.  The More macro appears on the Bookmark menu if the menu lists more than nine bookmarks.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }The More dialog from the Bookmark menu will be displayed.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} BrowseButtons Demonstration}}{\b\f3\fs28  }{
\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} BrowseButtons_Topic}}{\b\f3\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\b\f3\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} BrowseButtons();Browse Sequence}}{\b\f3\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:040}}{\b\f3\fs28  BrowseButtons()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro adds browse buttons (<< and >>) to the button bar. If the BrowseButtons macro is used with one or more CreateButton macros in the .HPJ file, the buttons appear in the same order on the button bar as the macros appear in the .HPJ file.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell DISABLED:  T}he Browse Buttons are added using the BrowseButton macro in the [CONFIG] section of MACROHLP.HPJ.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $}
 ChangeButtonBinding Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} ChangeButtonBinding_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeBu
ttonBinding("Execute_Button","ChangeButtonBinding(`btn_history',`About()')")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} ChangeButtonBinding();Macro;Button;Pre-Defined button values}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:045}}
 {\b\f3\fs28 ChangeButtonBinding, (}{\f3 "button-id", "button-macro"}{\b\f3\fs28 )
\par }\pard 
\par This macro assigns a Help macro to a Help button.
\par 
\par \trowd \cellx2160\cellx7920\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 Parameter\cell Description\cell }\pard \intbl \row \trowd \cellx2160\cellx7920\pard \intbl button-id\cell \pard \sl240\intbl Identifier assigned to the button in the {\uldb CreateButton}{\v 
CreateButton_Topic} macro or, for a standard Help button, one of the following predefined button IDs:
\par 
\par "btn_contents" (Contents), 
\par "btn_search" (Index)
\par "btn_back" (Back)
\par "btn_history" (History)
\par "btn_previous" (<<)
\par "btn_next" (>>)
\par 
\par The button ID must appear in quotation marks.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \cellx2160\cellx7920\pard \intbl button-macro
\par \cell \pard \sl240\intbl Help macro executed when the user selects the button. The macro must appear in quotation marks. \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:}\cell The History button will be changed to bring up the About... dialog box instead of the History dialog box.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} ChangeItemBinding Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} ChangeItemBinding_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
 EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","ChangeItemBinding(`Extra_Menu',`About()')")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} ChangeItemBinding();Macro;Menu}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {
\fs16\up6 +} Demos:050}} {\b\f3\fs28 ChangeItemBinding(}{\f3 "item-id", "item-macro"}{\b\f3\fs28 )
\par }\pard 
\par This macro assigns a Help macro to an item that you add to a WinHelp menu using the {\uldb AppendItem}{\v AppendItem_Topic} macro.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 Parameter\cell Description\cell }\pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl item-id\cell Identifier assigned to the item in the {\uldb AppendItem}{
\v AppendItem_Topic} macro. The item ID must appear in quotation marks.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl item-macro\cell Help macro executed when the user selects the item. The macro must appear in quotation marks.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par WinHelp ignores this macro if it is executed in a secondary window.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }Changes the Extra Menu item added with {\uldb AppendItem}{\v\uldb AppendItem_Topic} to bring up the About... dialog instead of jumping to the Extra Topic.  If the {
\uldb AppendItem}{\v\uldb AppendItem_Topic} macro has not yet been executed, then an error message occurs.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Contents();Index}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Contents Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Contents_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
  EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","Contents()")}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:055}} {\b\f3\fs28 Contents()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the contents topic in the current Help file. The contents topic is defined by the CONTENTS option in the [OPTIONS] section of the project file. If the project file does not have a CONTENTS option, the contents topic is the first topic 
of the first RTF file specified in the project file.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }This will cause the initial MACROHLP.HLP screen to appear.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} CopyDialog Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} CopyDialog_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","CopyDialog()")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {
\fs16\up6 K} CopyDialog();Copy}}  {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:060}} {\b\f3\fs28 CopyDialog()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro displays the Copy dialog from the Edit menu.
\par 
\par Use of the macro in secondary windows is discouraged.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }Brings up the Copy dialog from the Edit menu.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} CopyTopic Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} CopyTopic_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !} EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","CopyTopic()")}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K}
 CopyTopic();Copy;Clipboard}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:065}} {\b\f3\fs28 CopyTopic()
\par }\pard 
\par This macro copies all the text in the currently displayed topic to the Clipboard.
\par 
\par Use of the macro in secondary windows is discouraged.
\par 
\par \pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }Copies all of the text in this topic to the clipboard.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keepn \page  {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} CreateButton Demonstration}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} CreateButton_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 !}
 EnableButton("Execute_Button");ChangeButtonBinding("Execute_Button","CreateButton(`Test_Button',`&Test',`JI(`MACROHLP.HLP',`Test_Topic')')")}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} CreateButton();Button}+{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \f4\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} Demos:070} }{\b\f3\fs28 CreateButton(}{\f3 "button-id", "name", "macro"}{\b\f3\fs28 )
\par }\pard 
\par This macro adds a new button to the button bar. If the {\uldb BrowseButtons}{\v BrowseButtons_Topic}
 macro is used with one or more CreateButton macros in the .HPJ file, the buttons appear in the same order on the button bar as the macros appear in the .HPJ file.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b\fs28 Parameter\cell Description\cell }\pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl button-id\cell 
Name that WinHelp uses internally to identify the button. This name must appear in quotation marks. Use this name in the {\uldb DisableButton}{\v DisableButton_Topic} or {\uldb DestroyButton}{\v DestroyButton_Topic}
 macro if you want to remove or disable the button, or in the {\uldb ChangeButtonBinding}{\v ChangeButtonBinding_Topic} if you want to change the Help macro that the button executes in certain topics.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl name\cell The text that appears on the button. To make a letter in this text the mnemonic for the button, place an ampersand (&) before that letter.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl macro\cell Help macro or macro string executed when the user clicks on the button. Multiple macros in a macro string must be separated by semicolons.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par WinHelp allows a maximum of 16 authored buttons. It allows a total of 22 buttons, including the standard Browse buttons, on the button bar.
\par 
\par WinHelp ignores this macro if it is executed in a secondary window.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2052\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b Execute Button:\cell }Adds the Test button to the button bar.  If this button already exists, then an error message will occur.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par }