{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;
\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author sdfgsdfg}
{\operator sdfgsdfg}{\creatim\yr1991\mo10\dy6\hr19\min41}{\revtim\yr1991\mo10\dy6\hr20\min35}{\version2}{\edmins154}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16480}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 
\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \keepn \lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Macro_Contents}}{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !}
 DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Entry Topic}}{\b\f2\fs28  Help Compiler Macro Overview}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }\pard 
\par {\f2\uldb Comments on Source Files}{\v Comments_Topic}{\f2\uldb 
\par }{\f2\uldb How to Execute Help Macros}{\v HowTo_Topic}{\f2\uldb 
\par }{\f2\uldb Rules on Help Macros}{\v Rules_Topic}{\f2\uldb 
\par }{\f2\uldb Help Compiler Macro Demonstrations}{\v MacroDemonstration_Topic}{\f2\uldb 
\par }\pard \keepn {\fs16\up6 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Comments_Topic}}{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\fs16\up6  ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Comments on Source Files}}{\fs16\up6  +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 +} Major_Topics:005}}{\fs16\up6  }{\b\f2\fs28 Comments on Source Files}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }\pard 
\par The source files used to create this help database are:
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2772\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b MACROHLP.HLP}{\b \cell }Help Project File.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2772\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b MACROHLP.RTF\cell }Overview, Index, and miscellaneous topics.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl {\b ABC.RTF\cell }Macro demonstrations for Macros starting with the letters A, B, and C.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl {\b DEFGHI.RTF\cell }Macro demonstrations for Macros starting with the letters D, E, F, G, H, and I.
\par \cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2772\cellx7812\pard \intbl {\b JNPRS.RTF\cell }Macro demonstrations for Macros starting with the letters J, N, P, R, and S.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\par In order to comprehend how the macros themselves work from the source files, it is essential to understand the {\uldb ChangeButtonBinding}{\v ChangeButtonBinding_Topic}
 macro, which is used to change the action of a button.  To demonstrate each of the macros, the user reading the help file pushes the Execute button, which is added to the button bar in the [CONFIG] section of the project file.  In order to change the but
ton so that the appropriate macro is executed, the {\uldb ChangeButtonBinding}{\v ChangeButtonBinding_Topic} Macro is executed as each topic is displayed.  For more information on this particular macro, please refer to the {\uldb ChangeButtonBinding}{\v 
Cha}{\v ngeButtonBinding_Topic} demonstration topic.
\par \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} HowTo_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} How to Execute Help Macros}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 +} Major_Topics:010}} {\b\f2\fs28 How to Execute Help Macros}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }\pard 
\par WinHelp macros can be executed in several places.  The first place a macro can be executed is in the [CONFIG] section of  the project file.  Macros that are found in the [CONFIG] section are automatically executed when that particular help file is started
.  See the MACROHLP.HLP source file for a demonstration.  The next place 
a macro can be executed is from a button or menu.  This macro is executed when the user pushes the button or selects the menu item.  The macro demonstration topics illustrate this concept.  Also, macros can be executed upon entry of a topic.  To perform t
his operation, the topic needs to be marked with the exclamation point (!) footnote.  This method is shown in each of the macro demonstration topics.  Finally, macros can be executed from a hotspot in a bitmap.  A hotspot can be created using the segmente
d-hypergraphics editor (SHED.EXE) that comes with the Windows SDK.  The following is an example of a macro executed from a hotspot:
\par 
\par Push this bitmap, \{bmc windows.shg\}, and the {\uldb About()}{\v About_Topic} box will appear
\par \pard \keepn \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Rules_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Rules for Using Help Macros}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 +} Major_Topics:015}} {\b\f2\fs28 Rules for Using Help Macros}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }\pard 
\par Authors must follow these rules when constructing Help macros:
\par 
\par \pard \fi-432\li432\tx432 {\fs28 -}\tab Help macros are case-sensitive. 
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab A single macro string may include more than one Help macro. Use a semi-colon to separate each macro in the macro string.
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab Specify empty spaces in a macro string by placing the surrounding text in quotation marks.
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab Insert special characters in a quotation-marked string by prefacing the character with a backslash. Special characters include single quotation marks ("), opening and closing single quotation marks (` '), and backslashes (\\).
\par 
\par {\fs20 \tab }Note that the single open quotation mark is different from t
he single close quotation mark. The single open quotation mark (`) is paired with the tilde (~) above the TAB key on extended keyboards; the single close quotation mark (') is the same as the apostrophe.{\fs20 
\par }
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab 
Quotation marks may be either matching double quotation marks, or a matched set of single open and single close quotation marks. If a string is enclosed in double quotation marks, any strings enclosed within the string must be enclosed in opening and clos
ing single quotation marks. For example,
\par 
\par \tab CreateButton("time_btn", "&Time", "ExecProgram("clock", 0)")
\par 
\par \pard \li432\tx432 is illegal because the string "clock" uses double quotation marks within the double quotation marks used for the ExecProgram macro. The following example corrects the error by enclosing `clock' in single quotation marks:
\par \pard \fi-432\li432\tx432 
\par \tab CreateButton("time_btn", "&Time", "ExecProgram(`clock', 0)")
\par 
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab Macros may be included within other macros (that is, used as a parameter value for another macro).
\par 
\par {\fs28 -}\tab A single macro must be 254 or fewer characters in length.
\par \pard \keepn {\fs16\up6 \page }{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} MacroDemonstration_Topic}}{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Macro Demonstration Index}}{\fs16\up6  +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 +} Major_Topics:020}}{\fs16\up6  }{\b\f2\fs28 Help Compiler Macro Demonstrations}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }\pard 
\par {\f2\uldb About}{\v About_Topic}
\par {\f2\uldb AddAccelerator}{\v AddAccelerator_Topic}
\par {\f2\uldb Annotate}{\v Annotate_Topic}
\par {\f2\uldb AppendItem}{\v AppendItem_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Back}{\v Back_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb BookmarkDefine}{\v BookmarkDefine_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb BookmarkMore}{\v BookmarkMore_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb BrowseButtons}{\v BrowseButtons_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb ChangeButtonBinding}{\v ChangeButtonBinding_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb ChangeItemBinding}{\v ChangeItemBinding_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Contents}{\v Contents_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb CopyDialog}{\v CopyDialog_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb CopyTopic}{\v CopyTopic_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb CreateButton}{\v CreateButton_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb DeleteItem}{\v DeleteItem_Topic}{\f2\uldb 
\par }{\f2\uldb DeleteMark}{\v DeleteMark_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb DestroyButton}{\v DestroyButton_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb DisableButton}{\v DisableButton_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb DisableItem}{\v DisableItem_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb EnableButton}{\v EnableButton_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb EnableItem}{\v EnableItem_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb ExecProgram}{\v ExecProgram_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Exit}{\v Exit_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb FileOpen}{\v FileOpen_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb GotoMark}{\v GotoMark_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb HelpOn}{\v HelpOn_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb History}{\v History_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb IfThen}{\v IfThen_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb IfThenElse}{\v IfThenElse_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb InsertMenu}{\v InsertMenu_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb IsMark}{\v IsMark_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb JumpContents}{\v JumpContents_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb JumpId (JI)}{\v JumpId_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb JumpKeyword}{\v JumpKeyword_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Next}{\v Next_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Not}{\v Not_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb PopupId (PI)}{\v PopupId_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Prev}{\v Prev_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Print}{\v Print_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb PrinterSetup}{\v PrinterSetup_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb RegisterRoutine}{\v RegisterRoutine_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb SaveMark}{\v SaveMark_Topic}{\f2 
\par }{\f2\uldb Search}{\v Search_Topic}{\f2 
\par }\page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Test_Topic}}{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 $} Test Topic}} {\b\f2\fs28 Test Topic}
\par 
\par This topic is used in several different cases, including buttons and pop-up windows.
\par \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Mark_Topic}} {\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 $} Mark Topic}} {\b\f2\fs28 Mark Topic}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }
\par This topic is used in demonstrating the "Mark" macros.
\par {\b\f2\fs28 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} NoMark_Topic}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Not-Marked Topic}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\b\f2\fs28 Not-Marked Topic}{\b\f2\fs28 
\par }
\par This topic is used in demonstrating the "Mark" macros.
\par {\b\f2\fs28 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Extra_Topic}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 !{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 !} DisableButton("Execute_Button")}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\fs16\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Extra Topic}}{\b\f2\fs28  }{\b\f2\fs28 Extra Topic}
\par 
\par This topic is used in demonstrating the AppendItem() Macro
\par }