UK Focus Customers:

For your information, you may have heard about a service called WinNews. This is a general newsletter generated from the US Product group to keep people updated on information about Windows 95. It is accessed from the main on-line service forum (eg. Compuserve, Internet). Details on how to access it are in the attached text. 

For  sample, here is the latest Winnews Newsletter. Please ignore all information about US marketing/customer programmes and support details!

Regards
David Bridger
UK Windows Product Manager

Latest WinNews follows............

Microsoft WinNews Electronic Newsletter,
Vol. 1, #4, November 10, 1994
****************************************

It's done!  Windows 95 Beta 2 is now shipping to 48,000 beta
test sites worldwide as of last friday.  One more step is
completed on the long march to the final release of Windows 95.

As of now you're going to notice a lot more information becoming
available on Windows 95.  Microsoft has officially released beta
testers from the confidentiality clauses in their beta test
agreements. It should be easier than ever to get answers to
questions about Windows 95!

A lot of you have sent me mail with questions on how to become
a beta tester for Windows 95.  Although the beta is now closed,
Microsoft will offer a Windows 95 Preview Program between the final
technical beta and product release.  This program will allow
people interested in getting a head start on evaluating Windows 95
a chance to purchase a pre-release copy of Windows 95 along with
documentation, and support, for the cost of materials and implementation,
expected to be around $30 US.  At this time we are unable to provide
any further information on this program.  As further information becomes
available, including ordering insructions, mail will be sent to all
WINNEWS subscribers. So stay tuned to this channel!

So what's in this issue of WinNews?
 * System Resources under Windows 95.  Many people have written to
   ask whether Windows 95 will solve the memory/system resource
   issues they are experiencing on Windows 3.x today.  The answer is
   a resounding yes.  This short article explains how.
 * Tech Ed 95 is coming in March.  The Tech Ed group has given me
   an invitation to send to you.
 * New Features in Windows 95 Beta 2.  This is a partial list
   of what I felt were some of the more interesting new features
   in Beta 2.  A more complete list is available on our WinNews
   Servers.

A note -- in the last issue I made mention of our WinNews
Servers.  Many folks tried unsuccessfully to fetch files from
our list server.  Because of the increasing number of WinNews
subscribers, please fetch files you are interested in from one
of the following WinNews servers:

   On the Internet use ftp or the World-Wide-Web
   (ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/PerOpSys/Win_News,
   http://www.microsoft.com).

   On The Microsoft Network, open Computers and
   Software\Software Companies\Microsoft\Windows 95\
   WinNews.

   On CompuServe, type GO WINNEWS.

   On Prodigy JUMP WINNEWS.

   On America Online, use keyword WINNEWS.

   On GEnie, download files from the WinNews area under
   the Windows RTC.

Say - what's that thing up there called The Microsoft Network?
Let's just say it's a marvellous new service coming from
Microsoft and I'll tell you all about it in the next issue :-).

Alec Saunders
Editor
"Windows 95 - this ain't yer fathers Windows..."

************************************************************

System Resources under Windows 95

At this moment I am currently running 2 copies of Notepad,
the entire Microsoft Office 4.2 (Word, Excel and Powerpoint),
Microsoft Mail, and Schedule+ with additional windows open on
directories on my C drive. A right click on the My Computer
icon on my desktop reveals that I could start still more
applications - system resources are at a healthy 44% free.

Thanks to the magic of 32 bit addressing, the system resources
constraints we all experienced under Windows 3.1 will no longer
be a problem.  Here's how Windows 3.1 and Windows 95 compare
technically:

Windows 3.1 employs a series of 16 bit heaps (a heap is a data
structure for allocating memory to applications) to satisfy requests
for memory from the operating system and applications.  There are,
in fact, 4 - three for the component called USER, which manages
the user interface portions of the operating system, and one for
the component called GDI which manages the process of actually
drawing objects on the screen. Since each of these heaps can
only address a 16 bit address space, that means that the largest
amount of heap space available is 64K per heap - or 256K total.
Running out of system resources on Windows 3.1 usually means that
one of these heaps is full.

Under Windows 95, the three heaps for USER have been replaced by
one 32 bit heap with a theoretical limit of 2 GigaBytes -- effectively
unlimited on todays machines and for the foreseeable future.  This is
a lot bigger than the 3 64K heaps that USER used to have at it's
disposal! Windows 95 still maintains the 16 bit GDI heap for
compatibility reasons with some Windows 3.1 apps, but the operating
system satisfies every possible memory request from the much larger
32 bit heap.

Here's a comparison of some system wide resource limits for Windows
3.1 vs. Windows 95. As you can see, that 32 bit USER heap has a
substantial impact on the quantity of system resources available to
each application.

Resource			Windows 3.1	Windows 95
		
Window/Menu Handles		~200		32K (each)
Timers				32		Unlimited
COM/LPT ports			4 each		Unlimited
Listbox items (per listbox)	8K		32K
Listbox data (per listbox)	64K		Unlimited
Edit control data (per control)	64K		Unlimited

Regions				All in 64K	Unlimited
Physical pens, brushes, etc	All in 64K	Unlimited
Logical fonts			All in 64K	750-800
Installed fonts			250-300		1000
Device Contexts			200 (best case)	16K

In every case, the system resources available to Windows 95
are substantially larger than Windows 3.1, and in many cases
they are unlimited.  So say good-bye to "out of system resources"!

************************************************************

Microsoft
Tech-Ed 95 Conference
The definitive technical conference for BackOffice,
Office and WindowsTM-based solutions.

March 27-31, 1995
Ernest N. Morial Convention Center
New Orleans, Louisiana

Register Early to Save $200:
Tech-Ed Has Sold Out Every Year!
Call: (800) 433-9996 or (612) 550-6390 to register
or for more information.


Tech-Ed 95 Sessions

Tech-Ed 95 includes sessions on:

*	Microsoft(R) BackOffice
	Microsoft Exchange Server, Mail, Schedule+,
	SNA Server, SQL ServerTM,
	Systems Management Server,
	Windows NTTM Server
*	Microsoft Office
	Microsoft Access(R), Microsoft Excel,
	Microsoft Project, Word
*	Microsoft Development Tools
	FoxPro(R), Fortran, Test, Visual Basic(R),
	Visual C++TM
*	Microsoft Windows and Technologies
	Windows 95, Microsoft At WorkTM, Multimedia,
	MAPI, OLE, TAPI, Windows Connectivity,
	Windows NT Workstation

Managers: Why not send a team to ensure attendance at
all sessions that are critical for your business needs?

Who Should Attend

Tech-Ed 95 is the definitive conference for computer
professionals who design, develop, integrate or support
WindowsTM, Office and BackOffice-based solutions.
If you are a computer professional building or supporting
solutions based on Microsoft Windows, Office or
BackOffice, Tech-Ed 95 is the conference for you.

Microsoft BackOffice and Office Sessions
At Tech-Ed 94, many attendees asked for more information
about the future of Microsoft technology and its relevance
to real-world business computing solutions. Therefore,
Tech-Ed 95 offers more than 60 sessions that embody
Microsoft's present and future foundation for developing
client-server business solutions using BackOffice and Office.
Tech-Ed 95 also shows how to connect and integrate
BackOffice solutions with Office and Office-based
desktop applications.

Key Microsoft executives outline these strategies during a
full day of general session presentations (on Monday,
March 27) covering everything from operating systems
and architectures to tools and services. In addition, each
following day begins with solution sessions highlighting
specific, real-world business needs. Whether you are in a
corporate MIS organization, work for an independent
software developer or are a computer consultant,
Tech·Ed 95 shows you how to use BackOffice as an
integrated information system to provide information
networking and streamline business processes.

Speakers
Technical sessions are presented by experts in their fields
such as Microsoft developers and engineers, leading
industry experts, Microsoft Consulting Services
authorities, Microsoft Education instructors, and
independent technical gurus.

Additional Activities
In addition to the technical sessions, you'll find an
abundance of additional conference activities including:

*	Exhibit Hall. Get more technical information on tools,
	services and products available from Microsoft and
	third-party vendors in the Expo Area; question
	Microsoft experts in the Just Ask Microsoft Area;
	try-out the latest products in the Hands-on Center;
	exchange email with other attendees and Microsoft,
	view updated conference schedule information, and
	try sample applications on the Tech·Ed Email Network;
	and browse and order product and program literature in
	the Microsoft Technical Information Area.
*	Meet the Microsoft Teams Reception. Ask questions,
	give feedback, and interact with Microsoft product and
	program group representatives who will be on-hand
	during this special reception dedicated to interaction
	between attendees and Microsoft.
*	Microsoft Certified Professional Exam Testing. A full
	suite of Microsoft Certified Professional exams will be
	offered to attendees at half-price throughout the
	conference.
*	Tech-Ed 95 Attendee Party. We're planning a special
	evening of fun and entertainment as we thank you, our
	customers, for your support.
*	Birds-of-a-Feather Meetings. Talk with other
	attendees who have similar interests in products,
	technologies and programs in special rooms we've set
	aside for informal gatherings of small groups.
*	Jam Sessions. Whether you're a musician or just a
	music lover, you can stop by and check out the nightly
	jam sessions; we provide the instruments and you
	provide the tunes for late-night entertainment and fun.

Yours for Attending
When you attend Tech-Ed 95, you'll receive:

*	Session presentations
*	Sample code from selected technical sessions
*	A CD-ROM packed with session proceedings and
	technical information on Microsoft products and
	technologies
*	And more!

Price
Save $200! Registration is only $995 if you register by
February 1, 1995. After February 1, 1995, registration is
$1195.

How to Register
Register for Tech-Ed 95 by calling the Tech-Ed 95
registration desk at (800) 433-9996 or (612) 550-6390
from 6:30am to 5:30pm Pacific Time, Monday through
Friday. You are not considered registered until payment is
received in full. Registration is on a first-come,
first-served basis. Be sure to register prior to
February 1, 1995 to receive your $200 discount.

The conference registration fee does not include hotel
or airfare, but Microsoft has arranged for special hotel
and airfare prices for Tech-Ed 95. Call the Tech·Ed 95
registration desk at (800) 433-9996 or (612) 550-6390
for more information and to make your hotel and airfare
reservations.

International Tech-Ed 95 Conferences
In addition to the Tech-Ed 95 conference in New Orleans,
additional conferences will be held worldwide in Europe,
Australia and the Far East. For information, call or fax
the numbers below:

*	Tech-Ed 95 in Hamburg, Germany: April 10-12, 1995
	Tel: +44 1276 674444; Fax: +44 1276 674399
*	Tech-Ed 95 in Sydney, Australia: May 29-31, 1995
	Tel: 61 2 870 2100; Fax: +61 2 870 2285
*	Tech-Ed 95 in Tokyo, Japan: June 1-3, 1995
	Tel: 81-3-5565-3714; Fax: 81-3-5565-3716
*	Tech-Ed 95 in Taipei, Taiwan: June 3-4, 1995
	Tel: (886-2) 508-7148; Fax: (886-2) 504-3121

Tech-Ed On-Line
We've created a forum on CompuServe(R) to discuss
Tech-Ed conference issues. Just type GO MSTECHED
and choose the Tech-Ed section.

More information on the conference agenda at Tech-Ed is
available online from the WINNEWS servers in the file TE95C.TXT

************************************************************

Microsoft Windows 95
Summary of New Features in Beta-2

The Beta-2 release of Windows 95 represents fixes and
enhancements as well as further refinement of the
feature set and functionality to be offered in the
final retail product.

The information in this section is designed to give a
quick overview of some of the changes made between Beta-1 and
the delivery of Beta-2.

Note:	This is not an exhaustive list of the new
features or changes present in the Beta-2
release, but is intended to provide a quick
overview of some of the key enhancements since
Beta-1.  A more extensive list is available on the
WinNews servers in the file called DM7NEW.ZIP.

Windows 95 User Interface
 * Recycle Bin to recover deleted files
 * Multilevel undo for file operations like delete,
move, copy, or rename
 * Undo for window management operations performed on
the Taskbar
 * New visual design for the start button, it's bigger
with a nice bitmap as the menu background (users
can toggle between the larger menu view and a
smaller icon view)
 * Guided tour to help both new users and Windows 3.1
users learn the Windows 95 user interface
 * Integrated "Windows 3.1 help" system to aid Windows
3.1 users in operating in Windows 95
 * Quick viewer enhancements to improve speed and
support additional formats
 * Version and type information will be shown as a
property sheet for each file shipped as part of
Windows 95, making it easy for users to see the
version of system files they have and confirm they
have the latest revision
 * Document file summary properties shown via a
standard system property page, allowing users to
see the same summary properties they see in
Microsoft Word for Windows, for example, without
having to open the application.
 * Fonts folder is integrated into the shell as a
folder, and is accessible from My Computer
 * Application install wizard to guide users through
the process of installing both Windows and MS-DOS-
based applications.

MS-DOS-based Application Support

 * Ability to have custom config.sys and autoexec.bat
files per session with quick reboot for single MS-
DOS application mode.  This is a very nice solution
to running those cranky MS-DOS games that insist on
having their own configuration files
 * MS-DOS application information associated with
links so you can have multiple links to a single
MS-DOS executable, each with it's own specific
settings for that program.  For example, a link to
command.com to run it in a window, and a second one
to have it run full screen.
 * Simplified property sheet UI for configuring
options for running MS-DOS-based applications.
 * File system compatibility mode, which can be set in
setup.  Disables long file names and other new file
system features, plus uses old boot file names to
support old disk utilities.  Designed for 100% file
system compatibility.

Windows Core
 * Vastly improved Device Contexts (DCs) resource
limit, raising it from the current limit of around
150 to around 4000.  This will allow users to run
many more large resource hungry applications under
Windows 95 than  on Windows 3.1.
 * Image Color Matching work integrated.  Profiles for
the most popular color printers provided.

File System
 * Complete protect mode DriveSpace/DoubleSpace
integration.  VXD and real mode compression drivers
support both DoubleSpace and DriveSpace.  GUI-based
DriveSpace utility to make settings, compress in
place, etc.
 * Device configurability in the System Control Panel
UI; cache write behind control, fixed/removable
media settings, use real mode drivers or not,
polling versus interrupt driven, reserve letter for
removable drives, etc.
 * Support for a swapfile on compressed volume.  User
won't have to worry about changing various host
volume sizes to accommodate the swapfile.  The
swapfile just sits on the compressed volume and
grows and shrinks as needed.

Multimedia
 * Support for AutoPlay included.  If a CD-ROM is
autoplay-enabled, just put it in your CD-ROM drive
and it will run automatically.  If the desktop is
showing, AutoPlay will open a window to show the
contents of your CD automatically when you stick in
a CD)
 * Volume control.  A new volume control appears on
the Taskbar, making it easy to turn the sound up or
down.
 * New, simpler, UI for Multimedia control panel.
 * CD Player application included.  The new CD Player
makes it easy and enjoyable to play audio CDs in
your CD ROM drive.  You can even create and save
custom play lists, so you can skip over songs you
don't like)
 * Improved joystick driver.  The new joystick driver
requires less attention from the CPU (leaving more
cycles for your game!) and provides more accurate
and responsive user control -- so you'll hit what
you aim at more often.
 * CDFS Performance enhancements:  Since Beta-1,
improvements in the CD File System have boosted
streaming efficiency while decreasing the CPU
overhead for reading from the CD-ROM drive.  This
means that you can use the CPU to decompress
bigger, faster digital video than before.
 * 32-bit codecs:  IndeoO and Cinepak have both
provided 32-bit versions of their codecs, which
ship in Beta-2.
 * 32-bit digital video capture subsystems.  The
digital video capture subsystems are now fully 32-
bit in Beta-2.  When used in combination with a 32-
bit codec, this offers dramatically improved
digital video capture performance.  We are seeing
throughput increases of 30% or greater.  This means
you can capture bigger, faster, better looking
digital video without upgrading anything but the
software.
 * Full-screen digital video.  When you play a 640x480
digital video file, Windows 95 now automatically
removes the window border in order to play it full-
screen.
 * TrueSpeech voice compression.  Beta-2 includes this
new codec for very efficient compression of voice
data.
 * Support for the new Sony/Phillips "CD+" format
(using stamped multisession technology) built into
Windows 95


************************************************************

New files on WinNews Servers

All of the files are compressed into single file ZIP files
to minimize download time for you.  The naming convention is as
follows:

	D prefix	Word 2 doc file
	A prefix	ASCII Text file
	P prefix	Postscript printer file

In the list below you will see some files marked 'N' and some
'U'.  N files are new files this month.  U files are files that
have been updated to reflect the name change from Chicago to
Windows 95.

U DPERF4.ZIP	Windows 95 vs. Warp Performance Benchmarks

		Contains corrections to some mathematical errors
		in the benchmarks published in October, plus a more
		detailed explanation of the benchmarking methods.

N DOVW.ZIP	Overview of the Windows 95 Logo Program

		An overview of the Designed for Windows 95 Program

N DTRANS.ZIP	Guide to the Transition to the Windows 95
		Logo - October update

		A detailed guide to the Designed for Windows 95
		logo program, plus instructions for software vendors
		who currently license the old logo on how to transition
		from the old logo to the new logo.

N QALOG.ZIP	Q&A on the Windows 95 Logo Program

		Questions / Answers on the logo program

N DIWRSP.ZIP	Response to InfoWorld Comparison of OS/2 Warp
		and Windows 95

		Microsoft's assessment of the InfoWorld article
		which appeared this month comparing Windows 95 and
		OS/2 Warp.

N DRK_DP.ZIP	Microsoft Windows 95 Deployment Guide

		A workbook and guide for corporations thinking about
		large scale deployment of Windows 95.

N DNOVQA.ZIP	Microsoft Windows 95 Questions and
		Answers - November 1994

		Updated Q&A document to reflect the changes released
		with Beta 2.

N DREVGD.ZIP	Microsoft Windows 95 Beta 2 Reviewers Guide

		Updated Reviewers Guide (now a mere 340 pages) to
		reflect the changes released with Beta 2.

N DAUTPL.ZIP	Microsoft Windows 95 Autoplay CD
		Developers Info

		Autoplay is a new standard which allows CD's to
		automatically load software and start running when
		inserted into the disk drive.  Here's how to make
		your CD application autoplay.

N DM7NEW.ZIP	What's new in Windows 95 Beta 2
		
		Just want a quick summary of the changes?  Here it
		is -- a mere piffle of a document that tells all.

NOTE: For the sake of brevity I have ommitted new listings of
ASCII and Postscript files.  For each new Word file shown above
there is an equivalent ASCII or PostScript file, named according
to the conventions listed above -- ie. DLOGO2.ZIP becomes
ALOGO2.ZIP (ascii) and PLOGO2.ZIP (postscript).

************************************************************


If you know someone who might be interested in WinNews, feel
free to forward this document, provided you forward it in
it's entirety, as per the copyright notice below.  If you
wish to stop receiving WinNews, send mail to
enews@microsoft.nwnet.com with the text UNSUBSCRIBE WINNEWS
in the body of your message.  If you have received WinNews
from someone who is a subscriber and WISH to subscribe
yourself, send mail to enews@microsoft.nwnet.com with the
words SUBSCRIBE WINNEWS as the sole text of your message.

************************************************************

This document is provided for informational purposes only.
The information contained in this document represents the
current view of Microsoft Corporation on the issues
discussed as of the date of publication.  Because Microsoft
must respond to change in market conditions, it should not
be interpreted to be a commitment on the part of Microsoft
and Microsoft cannot guarantee the accuracy of any
information presented after the date of publication.

INFORMATION PROVIDED IN THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
FREEDOM FROM INFRINGEMENT. The user assumes the entire risk
as to the accuracy and the use of this document. This
document may be copied and distributed subject to the
following conditions: 1) All text must be copied without
modification and all pages must be included; 2) All copies
must contain Microsoft's copyright notice and any other
notices provided therein; and 3) This document may not be
distributed for profit.

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
