___________________________________________________________________________

4 Pasting from
  Other Applications

You can paste text and graphics from other Microsoft Windows applications
onto your Microsoft Windows Write documents. Pasting makes it easy to
enhance documents visually and to insert text without retyping it.

This chapter describes how to paste data from both Windows applications and
standard applications. It also describes how to move and size pictures in
Write, how to paste from Write to other applications, and how to use Write
with Microsoft Word. You can paste information from any application that
runs with Windows, whether it is a Windows application or a standard
application. For general guidelines about running standard applications,
see the Microsoft Windows User's Guide.

Note It is not necessary to run the two applications simultaneously.
Windows holds the information you copy and paste on the Clipboard. Windows
saves Clipboard even after you quit the application you copied from.


___________________________________________________________________________
Clipboard

Clipboard holds the information you want to paste. You have probably
already used Clipboard to move and copy text within
a Write document.

You can run Clipboard any time during a Windows session to see what is on
it. This is useful if you want to check the contents of Clipboard before
you paste.


________________________________________
Running Clipboard

To run Clipboard, follow these steps:


1 Open the MS-DOS Executive window.


2 Select and run CLIPBRD.EXE.


  ______________________________



















  ______________________________


Clipboard contains the most recent information you cut or copied from a
Windows application. The next Paste command pastes this information onto an
application. The contents of Clipboard remain until you cut or copy new
information, or end the Windows session. The examples in this chapter
describe how to


o Paste graphics from Windows Paint (a Windows application).


o Paste data from standard applications.


___________________________________________________________________________
Pasting Graphics from Windows Paint

Windows Paint is a drawing tool that is a Windows application; that is, it
was designed especially to run with Microsoft Windows. You can paste all or
part of a Paint canvas onto a Write document.


________________________________________
Pasting graphics from Windows Paint

To paste from Paint, follow these steps:


1 Open a Paint window with the canvas you want to copy from.


2 Pick up the Selection Rectangle tool, and select the area of the canvas
  you want to paste onto Write.

    ______________________________



















    ______________________________




3 Select the Edit menu and choose the Copy command.

  This copies the selection onto Clipboard.


4
  Open a Write window that contains the document you want
  to paste onto.


5 Move the insertion point to where you want to insert the graphics from
  Paint.

    ______________________________


















    ______________________________



6 Select the Edit menu and choose the Paste command to insert the graphics
  in the document.


  ______________________________


















  ______________________________


Note Choosing Paste need not be your first action after opening the
document. But it is wise to paste immediately, before you choose the Cut or
Copy command and inadvertently change the contents of Clipboard.

You can also use Paint to enhance text or graphics from other applications
before pasting onto Write. See Pasting from Write into Another Application,
later in this chapter.

___________________________________________________________________________
Pasting Data from a Standard Application

You can easily paste data from standard applications into Microsoft Write.
Use the Mark and Copy commands from the Control menu to select the area you
want to paste onto Clipboard, or use ALT+PRINTSCREEN to copy an entire
screen to Clipboard. For more information on copying to Clipboard, see the
Microsoft Windows User's Guide.


________________________________________
Pasting data from a standard application

To paste data from a standard application, follow these steps:


1 Copy the desired information to Clipboard.


2 Open a Write window that contains the document to which you want to
  paste.


3 Move the insertion point to where you want to insert the data.

  If your document is in a proportional-space font such as Helv, it's a
  good idea to change to a fixed-space font such as Courier before pasting
  data. This ensures that information will line up in your Write document.


4 Select the Edit menu and choose the Paste command to insert the data in
  the document.

  If you changed to a fixed-space font, change back to the proportional-
  space font before you continue typing.


___________________________________________________________________________
Moving and Sizing a Picture in Write

After you paste a picture or graph into Write, you can select it and move,
copy, or paste it just as you would text.

The picture is always pasted onto the document at the left margin. You can
move the picture horizontally with the Move Picture command. You can change
the size of the picture with the Size Picture command. The Move Picture and
Size Picture commands are active while a picture is selected.

Moving a Picture

You can move a picture horizontally with the Move Picture command from the
Edit menu. You can move the picture with the keyboard or the mouse.


________________________________________
Moving a picture

To move a picture with the keyboard, follow these steps:


1 Move the insertion point to the left of the picture and press SHIFT+RIGHT
  to select the picture.


2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Move Picture command.

  An icon appears in the center of the picture and a dotted frame surrounds
  the picture.

    ______________________________



















    ______________________________



3 Press the RIGHT or LEFT direction key to move the dotted frame.


4 When the frame is where you want it, press the ENTER key.

  Or, press the ESCAPE key to leave it where it was.



________________________________________
Moving a picture

To move a picture with the mouse, follow these steps:


1 Click the picture to select it.


2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Move Picture command.

  An icon appears in the center of the picture and a dotted frame surrounds
  the picture.


3 Without pressing the mouse button, move the mouse right or left to move
  the dotted frame.


4 When the frame is where you want it, click the mouse button.

  Or, press the ESCAPE key to leave it where it was.


Note You can also use formatting commands from the Paragraph menu (Left,
Centered, Right) to move a picture.


Sizing a Picture

You can enlarge or reduce a picture in Write with the Size Picture command
from the Edit menu. You can size the picture with the keyboard or the
mouse.

There are several points you should keep in mind when you size
a picture:


o The lower-left corner of the Write window displays sizing information in
  the form of X and Y values. It is best to keep X and Y the same, and to
  size in whole (for example, 5) rather than fractional (5.5), numbers.
  This will prevent distortion of the sized image.


o Write displays pictures in a screen resolution that is appropriate to the
  selected printer. Because of differences in screen and printer
  resolutions, these pictures may seem slightly distorted on screen. When
  printed, the resolution will be correct.



________________________________________
Sizing a picture

To size a picture with the keyboard, follow these steps:


1 Move the insertion point to the left of the picture and press SHIFT+RIGHT
  to select the picture.


2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Size Picture command.

  An icon appears in the center of the picture and a dotted frame surrounds
  the picture.

    ______________________________





















    ______________________________



3 Press the LEFT, RIGHT, or DOWN key to move the icon to the bottom or side
  of the dotted frame. To size in two dimensions, move the icon to a lower
  corner of the dotted frame.


4 Press a DIRECTION key to enlarge or reduce the frame.

  For example, if the icon is in the lower-right corner, pressing the UP
  key reduces the height of the dotted frame, and pressing the LEFT key
  reduces the width.


5 When the frame is the size you want, press the ENTER key.

  Or, press the ESCAPE key to go back to the original size.



________________________________________
Sizing a picture

To size a picture with the mouse, follow these steps:


1 Click the picture to select it.


2 Select the Edit menu and choose the Size Picture command.

  An icon appears in the center of the picture and a dotted frame surrounds
  the picture.


3 Without pressing the mouse button, move the icon to the bottom, left, or
  right edge of the frame.

  At the edge of the frame, move the icon in the direction you want to
  enlarge or reduce the picture.


4 When the frame is the size you want, click the mouse button.

  Or, press the ESCAPE key to go back to the original size.


___________________________________________________________________________
Pasting from Write onto
Another Application

You can paste text and graphics from your Write documents onto other
applications. The following example shows you how to paste text onto Paint.
You may want to do this to make certain text, such as a title or
letterhead, more elaborate. Then you can paste the text back onto your
Write document.


________________________________________
Pasting from Write onto Paint

To paste from Write onto Paint, follow these steps:


1 Open two windows on the screen: a Write window with a document and a
  Paint window with a clean canvas.


2 Select the text in the Write document that you want to paste onto Paint.

    ______________________________




    ______________________________



3 Select the Edit menu and choose the Copy command.


4 Select the Paint window.


5 Select the Edit menu and choose the Paste command.


  ______________________________

















  ______________________________

Now you can use the Paint tools to make the text really exciting. Use your
imagination and experiment. If you want to start over, erase the canvas and
paste the text again.

When you finish designing the text, you can paste it back onto the Write
document. For instructions on how to do this, see Pasting Graphics from
Windows Paint, earlier in this chapter.

  ______________________________


















  ______________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
Using Write with Microsoft Word

Write is highly compatible with Microsoft's in-depth word processing
program, Word. You can share documents between these two writing programs
and get the benefits of both.

Microsoft Word is a word processor for people who handle long documents or
need advanced capabilities. With Word, you get special features such as
mail merge, spelling checker, footnotes, glossaries, style sheets, and
automatic hyphenation.

Write offers the advantages of combined text and graphics and the ability
to paste information from other applications. It is the perfect writing
program for busy people who need to get short documents out quickly. Write
is also very easy to learn because it uses the standard Windows interface.

If you are using both Write and Word, or if you have access to Write and
Word documents, you will find the two products complement each other. You
can move a Write document into Word and use advanced features, such as mail
merge, with that document. You can move a Word document into Write and
paste in graphics and text from Paint and other applications in Windows.

Both word processors are very flexible in their treatment of fonts, but
they do not use the same fonts. A document transferred into Write can use
only the fonts available with Write. A document transferred into Word can
use only the fonts available with Word.

________________________________________
Using Word documents in Write


Using a Word Document in Write

To use a Word document in Write, open the document with the Open command in
Write. You can begin immediately to edit the text, paste graphics from the
Clipboard, or perform other Write tasks with the document.

Because Word has more ways to treat text than Write does, some aspects of
the document will change. Check the following list to see how Write will
handle your Word document:


o If the Word document has more than one division, Write uses only the
  division formats of the first division. Write discards automatic page
  numbers, but keeps the starting page number, if you specified it. Write
  does not acknowledge any margin settings made in the Word document;
  instead it uses the margins that are set for the active printer in Write.
  Write changes Word's division marks into page breaks and discards any
  division formats assigned after the first division.


o If the first division of the Word document has a header and if the header
  is the first paragraph in the document, it becomes the header in the
  Write document. The same is true for the footer (or for both, if they are
  the first two paragraphs). Headers and footers that are not the first two
  paragraphs are discarded. Headers and footers from later divisions are
  discarded.

  Note If you are using Version 1.0 of Microsoft Word, Write discards all
  headers and footers.



o Write displays footnotes from the Word document as paragraphs at the end
  of the document. Write displays automatic footnote references as
  asterisks. If you entered your own footnote references in Word, Write
  retains them.


o Write uses the tab settings from the first paragraph of the Word
  document. These tab settings apply to the entire Write document.


o Write keeps the paragraph formats from Word, except extra space between
  paragraphs. If paragraphs have line spacing greater than double spacing
  (such as triple spacing), Write changes it to double spacing.


o Write keeps new-line characters.


o Write keeps the bold, italic, and underline character formats. Write
  discards the strikethrough, double underline, and upper-case formats and
  displays the text as normal text. Write dis- plays a smaller font for
  small caps, but does not capitalize the text. Write keeps superscripts
  and subscripts.


o Write changes nonbreaking spaces to y and nonbreaking hyphens to ia.
  Write discards optional and automatic hyphens.


o Write discards formatting that was done with Word style sheets. If you
  want to keep the formatting, change style sheet formatting to direct
  formatting before you transfer the document to Write.


________________________________________
Changing to direct
formatting

To change style sheet formatting to direct formatting, follow these steps:


1 Select the entire document in Word.


2 Press ESCAPE, F, C to open the Format Character menu.


3 Choose a character format that was not used in your document, such as
  Strikethrough or Double Underline, and choose No for that format.


4 Press the ENTER key.

  This converts the character formatting done with style sheets to direct
  formatting. When you apply direct formatting to all the characters, Write
  breaks its connection with the character formats on the style sheet.


5 Press ESCAPE, F, P to open the Format Paragraph menu.


6 Choose a paragraph format that was not used in your document, such as
  Keep Follow, and choose No for that format.


7 Press the ENTER key.

  This converts the paragraph formatting done with style sheets to direct
  formatting. When you apply direct formatting to all the paragraphs, Write
  breaks its connection with the paragraph formats on the style sheet.


8 Save the document.

Now you can transfer the document to Write without losing the formatting.

________________________________________
Using Write documents in Word


Using a Write Document in Word

To use a Write document in Word, open the document as you would open any
document with Word. You can begin immediately to use all the features of
Word with the document.

Word keeps the character, paragraph, and document formats you assigned to
the Write document. If you add Word-only features, such as footnotes or
divisions, these will be changed if you open the document again with Write.
See the previous section, Using a Word Document in Write.

Note If your Write document contains graphics, delete them before
transferring the document to Word. If you do open a document with graphics
in Word, do not attempt to edit the graphics or print the document with
Word. The Word program is not intended for use with graphics.










































