___________________________________________________________________________

6 Command Summary

Microsoft Windows Write commands help you create, edit, format, and print
your documents. You choose commands from the menus on the menu bar at the
top of the Write window.

This chapter describes shortcut command keys, and describes each of the
Write commands in the order in which they appear on the menus.

___________________________________________________________________________
Shortcut Command Keys

Some commands have shortcut keys. Pressing a shortcut key
is the same as choosing the command. For example, pressing CONTROL+INSERT
carries out the Copy command from the Edit menu. The shortcut key names are
displayed next to the commands on the menus. Not all commands have shortcut
keys, but the most commonly used commands do.

  ______________________________









  ______________________________

With shortcut keys, you bypass opening the menu and choosing the command,
and immediately carry out the command. You will find shortcut keys
convenient, whether you have a keyboard system or a mouse system.



For this    Press this key
command
___________________________________________________________________________

Undo        ALT+BACKSPACE

Cut         SHIFT+DELETE

Copy        CONTROL+INSERT

Paste       INSERT

Repeat      F3
Last Find

Go To Page  F4

Normal      F5
(Character)

Bold        F6

Italic      F7

Underline   F8


________________________________________


___________________________________________________________________________
The File Menu

Use the File menu commands to create, save, and print your Write documents.
Both the Open and New commands let you save any changes to the active
document before proceeding.

New

The New command clears the window and opens a new, untitled document with
the preset format and tabs. The document remains untitled until you give it
a name with the Save command.

Open

The Open command opens the document you select from the Open list box. If
there is a active document, Write closes it.

You can also open different directories and disk drives with the Open
command. Disk drives and directories are shown in square brackets in the
list box. If you open a disk drive, the list box displays the documents and
directories that are on the disk in that drive. If you open a directory,
the list box displays the documents and subdirectories that are in that
directory.

Write allows you to open Microsoft Word documents and other documents that
are not in Write format. Some of these can or must be converted to Write
format when you open them.

Save

The Save command saves the document on the active disk in the active
directory. If the document is untitled, the Save As dialog box appears.

Save As

The Save As command lets you name or change the name of the active
document, or save a new copy of the active document on a different disk or
in a different directory.

You can save to a subdirectory by preceding the document name with the
subdirectory name; for example, \jobs.

If you have a hard disk, you can save to a different disk by preceding the
document name with the drive name; for example, b:.

The Save As command has options for saving a backup copy (selected
automatically) and for saving a document as text (Windows ANSI format), in
Microsoft Word format, or as non-formatted text (Microsoft Word Text
format).

Print

The Print command paginates the document and sends it to the active
printer. Unless you have disabled the Windows Spooler (see Printing Large
Files in Chapter 5), the Print command automatically runs it, and the
Spooler icon appears on the screen. The Print command has options for the
number of copies you want to print and for printing a selected page range.
Write is preset to print one copy of the entire document. The Print command
is disabled (gray) if you have not installed a printer using Windows Setup
or the Add New Printer command in the Control Panel.

Change Printer

The Change Printer command changes the active printer. You select the
printer you want from a list box. The list box has the names of the
printers you have installed in Windows. The appearance of your document on
the screen may change when you choose Change Printer because Write always
formats the document for the active printer.

Repaginate

The Repaginate command paginates the document so you can preview the page
breaks before printing. Write indicates page breaks by placing >> in the
left margin. While Write is repaginating, you can approve or change page
breaks with the Confirm Page Breaks option.

Exit

The Exit command ends your Write session. If you have made changes in the
active document (if any), but haven't yet saved them, Write asks you
whether you want to save the changes. If you say yes, the Save dialog box
appears.

About Write...

The About Write command opens an information box that gives pertinent
information about the Windows Write program, including its revision level.
This box remains open until you press OK.

________________________________________



___________________________________________________________________________
The Edit Menu

The Cut and Copy commands in the Edit menu are disabled (gray) until you
select some text. The Move Picture and Size Picture commands are disabled
until you select a picture (graphics).

Undo

The Undo command reverses your most recent action. The command name
changes, depending on your most recent action: Undo Typing, Undo
Formatting, or Undo Editing. If your most recent action was undo, the
command changes to Undo, and you can use it to reverse the undo.

Cut

The Cut command removes selected text or graphics from the document and
puts it in the Clipboard. Pressing the SHIFT+DELETE key is the same as
choosing Cut.

Copy

The Copy command copies selected text or graphics to the Clipboard.
Pressing the CONTROL+INSERT key is the same as choosing Copy.

Paste

The Paste command inserts the contents of the Clipboard at the insertion
point. Pressing the SHIFT+INSERT key is the same as choosing Paste. The
contents of the Clipboard can be from a Write document or from another
Windows application.

Move Picture

The Move Picture command puts a move icon in the selected picture and a
dotted frame around the picture. Move the icon with the LEFT and RIGHT keys
or with the mouse until the dotted frame is positioned where you want the
picture. Then press the ENTER key or click the mouse button to set the new
position. Or, press the ESCAPE key to return to the original position.

Size Picture

The Size Picture command puts a size icon in the selected picture and a
dotted frame around the picture. Use the DIRECTION keys or the mouse to
move the size icon to the edge of the dotted frame. If you move to a
corner, you can size in two dimensions. Move the size icon until the dotted
frame is the size you want the picture to be. Then press the ENTER key or
click the mouse button to set the new size. Or, press the ESCAPE key to
return to the original size.

________________________________________



___________________________________________________________________________
The Search Menu

The Find command starts searching for text at the insertion point or at the
end of the selection and goes to the end of the document; then it goes to
the beginning of the document and continues searching to the insertion
point or to the end of the selection. The Change command searches like the
Find command. But, if you have characters or words selected, Change
searches only within the selection.

You can use a question mark as a wildcard character in the search. For
example, hea? might find head, heal, and heap.

The Find and Change commands both have the Whole Word and Match
Upper/Lowercase options. Select the Whole Word check box to assure that
Write does not find the search text embedded in other text, such as main in
remainder. Select the Match Upper/Lowercase check box to find only those
occurrences with the same capitalization as the search text. Otherwise,
Write ignores capitalization while searching.

Find

The Find command searches for a specific piece of text and selects it. The
Find dialog box stays on the screen while Write searches. You can choose
the Find Next button to continue searching. To close the Find dialog box,
press the ESCAPE key.

Repeat Last Find

The Repeat Last Find command continues the search for the text from the
last Find or Change command. You can continue the search with Repeat Last
Find even after you have closed the Find or Change dialog box. Pressing the
F3 key is the same as choosing Repeat Last Find.

Change

The Change command searches for a specific piece of text and selects and/or
changes it. The Change dialog box stays on the screen while Write searches.
You can choose the Find Next button or the Change then Find button to
continue searching and changing. You can choose the Change All button to
change all occurrences of the text automatically. If you make a selection
before choosing the Change command, the command operates only within the
selection. To close the Change dialog box, press the ESCAPE key.

Go To Page

The Go To Page command scrolls to a specific page number. Write assigns
page numbers when you print the document or paginate it with the Repaginate
command. Pressing the F4 key is the same as choosing Go To Page.
________________________________________



___________________________________________________________________________
The Character Menu

To change the appearance of characters, select them before choosing a
command from the Character menu. If you do not make a selection, the
command applies to the next text you type. Otherwise, the text you type has
the character formats of the text immediately preceding it.

Character formats do not appear on the screen if they are not supported by
the active printer.

The formats assigned to the selected text have a checkmark by them on the
menu. Choosing a command that is already checked unchecks it and removes
the formatting.

Normal

The Normal command removes all character formatting except font and font
size changes from your text. Pressing the F5 key is the same as choosing
Normal.

Bold

The Bold command changes the character style to boldface. Pressing the F6
key is the same as choosing Bold.

Italic

The Italic command changes the character style to italic. Pressing the F7
key is the same as choosing Italic.

Underline

The Underline command underscores text. Pressing the F8 key is the same as
choosing Underline.

Superscript

The Superscript command raises characters above the baseline of the text.
The superscript appears in a smaller size.

Subscript

The Subscript command lowers characters below the baseline of the text. The
subscript appears in a smaller size.

Font Names

Up to three font names appear on the Character menu, depending on the
active printer. Choose a font name to assign that font to text. Write
changes the names and their order on the menu depending on the fonts you
use most often.

Reduce Font

The Reduce Font command reduces the size of a font to the next smaller
size. If a smaller size is not supported by the active printer, there is no
visible change on the screen.

Enlarge Font

The Enlarge Font command increases the size of a font to the next larger
size. If a larger size is not supported by the active printer, there is no
visible change on the screen.

Fonts

The Fonts command displays all the fonts and sizes available for the active
printer. You can select a font and size from the lists to assign them to
text. Or, you can enter a font name and size for a different printer and
assign them to text.

________________________________________



___________________________________________________________________________
The Paragraph Menu

The commands in the Paragraph menu change the formats of a paragraph that
contains the insertion point, or of all of the paragraphs in the active
selection. When you start a new paragraph by pressing the ENTER key, it
begins with the same formats as the preceding paragraph.

Normal

The Normal command restores the preset paragraph formats: left-aligned,
single-spaced, unjustified, with no indents.

Left

The Left command aligns the paragraph flush left on the margin.

Centered

The Centered command centers each line of the paragraph inside the active
margins.

Right

The Right command aligns the paragraph flush right on the
margin.

Justified

The Justified command justifies the paragraph. It fills in the
spaces between words to align the paragraph on the left and
right margins.

Single Space

The Single Space command sets the line spacing with one-sixth inch between
lines. If the line includes different font sizes, the line spacing will
vary to accommodate the tallest character in the line.

1 1/2 Space

The 1 1/2 Space command sets the line spacing with one-quarter inch between
lines.

Double Space

The Double Space command sets the line spacing with one-third inch between
lines.

Indents

The Indents command sets the distance that lines are indented from the
margin. You can indent from the left and right margin, and you can indent
the first line of a paragraph. Note that the Indents command does not
change the margin itself. To change margins, you use the Page Layout
command.

________________________________________



___________________________________________________________________________
The Document Menu

The commands in the Document menu affect the entire document. Headers,
footers, and page numbers are displayed only on printed pages, not in your
document on the screen.

Header

The Header command opens the Header document and dialog box. The text you
type in the Header document becomes the
running header when you print the document. The dialog box options let you
include page numbers, change the distance of the header from the top of the
page, and print the header on page one.

Footer

The Footer command opens the Footer document and dialog box. The text you
type in the Footer document becomes the running footer when you print the
document. The dialog box options let you include page numbers, change the
distance of the footer from the bottom of the page, and print the footer on
page one.

Ruler On/Off

The Ruler On command displays the Ruler at the top of the window. If you
have a mouse, you can use the Ruler to set tabs and paragraph formats. The
Ruler Off command hides the Ruler.

Tabs

The Tabs command sets tabs. You can set left-aligned tabs or decimal tabs.
Write has preset tabs set at every half inch. The preset tabs do not appear
in the Tabs dialog box or on the Ruler.

Page Layout

The Page Layout command changes the margins for the printed page, changes
the starting page number, and toggles the measurement between English and
Metric (inches and centimeters; the preset is inches). The preset page
layout leaves a 1-inch margin at the top and bottom of the page, and a
1.25-inch margin at the left and right of the page.















